Olea europaea L. is historically one of the most important trees of the Mediterranean countries. Increasing scientific interest regarding its fruits, leaves and olive oil has led to the elucidation of several phytochemical and biological characteristics. However, the phytochemical and biological studies regarding olive flowers remain limited. The aim of the present study was the phytochemical characterization of olive flowers' hydroalcoholic extract from Greek variety Lianolia, the effective isolation of the major secondary metabolites and evaluation of their inhibition activity against tyrosinase, elastase and collagenase. UPLC-HRMS/MS analysis was used to investigate the chemical composition of hydroalcoholic extract resulting in the identification of sixty-three secondary metabolites witch mainly belong to phenilethanoids, triterpenoids, flavonoids and secoiridoids. The orthogonial combination of Centrifugal Partition Chromatography and preparative HPLC in the same purification process led to the isolation of nine major compounds of the extract including two triterpenic acids, two flavonoid glycosides and five secoiridoid derivatives. From them, oleofloside A and oleofloside B are new natural products. Although, the hydroalcoholic extract and isolated secoiridoids exhibited weak or no inhibition activity towards tyrosinase and elastase, they exhibit remarkable anti-collagenase activity with 2΄-ethoxyoleuropein being the most active compound.
The peptide AVFQHNCQE demonstrated to produce nitric oxide-mediated antihypertensive effect. This study investigates the bioavailability and the opioid-like activity of this peptide after its oral administration. For this purpose, in silico and in vitro approaches were used to study the peptide susceptibility to GI digestion. In addition, AVFQHNCQE absorption was studied both in vitro by using Caco-2 cell monolayers and in vivo evaluating peptide presence in plasma from Wistar rats by ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC-MS/MS) and by ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-high resolution mass spectrometry (UHPLC-HRMS). Both in vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated that peptide AVFQHNCQE was not absorbed. Thus, the potential involvement of opioid receptors in the BP-lowering effect of AVFQHNCQE was studied in the presence of opioid receptors-antagonist Naloxone. No changes in blood pressure were recorded in rats administered Naloxone, demonstrating that AVFQHNCQE antihypertensive effect is mediated through its interaction with opioid receptors. AVFQHNCQE opioid-like activity would clarify the antihypertensive properties of AVFQHNCQE despite its lack of absorption.
Machining of metals is an essential operation in the manufacturing industry. Chip formation in metal cutting is associated with large plastic strains, large deformations, high strain rates and high temperatures, mainly located in the primary and in the secondary shear zones. During the last decades, there has been significant progress in numerical methods and constitutive modeling for machining operations. In this work, the Particle Finite Element Method (PFEM) together with a dislocation density (DD) constitutive model are introduced to simulate the machining of Ti-6Al-4V. The work includes a study of two constitutive models for the titanium material, the physically based plasticity DD model and the phenomenology based Johnson-Cook model. Both constitutive models were implemented into an in-house PFEM software and setup to simulate deformation behaviour of titanium Ti6Al4V during an orthogonal cutting process. Validation show that numerical and experimental results are in agreement for different cutting speeds and feeds. The dislocation density model, although it needs more thorough calibration, shows an excellent match with the results. This paper shows that the combination of PFEM together with a dislocation density constitutive model is an excellent candidate for future numerical simulations of mechanical cutting.
Although evidence-based guidelines designed to minimize health care variation and promote effective care are widely accepted, creating guidelines alone does not often lead to the desired practice change. Such knowledge-to-practice gaps are well-recognized in the management of patients with abdominal wall hernia, where wide variation in patient selection and operative approach likely contributes to suboptimal patient outcomes. To create sustainable, scalable, and widespread adherence to evidence-based guidelines, it is imperative to better understand individual surgeon motivations and behaviors associated with surgical decision-making. To evaluate the systematic application of the Theoretical Domains Framework (TDF) to explore motivations and behaviors associated with surgical decision-making in abdominal wall hernia practice to help inform the future design of theory-based interventions for desired practice and behavior change. This qualitative study used purposive sampling to recruit 21 practicing surgeons at community and academic hospitals from 5 health regions across Michigan. It used interviews consisting of clinical vignettes for highly controversial situations in abdominal wall hernia repair, followed by semistructured interview questions based on the domains of the TDF to gain nuance into motivating factors associated with surgical practice. Patterns within the data were located, analyzed, and identified through thematic analysis using software. All data were collected between May and July 2018, and data analysis was performed from August 2018 to July 2019. Factors associated with decisions on the surgical approach to abdominal wall hernia repair were assessed using TDF. Seventeen (81%) of the 21 participants were men, with a median (interquartile range) age of 47 (45-54) years. Of the 14 TDF domains, 5 were found to be most associated with decisions on the surgical approach to abdominal wall hernia repair for surgeons in Michigan: knowledge, beliefs about consequences, social or professional role and identity, environmental context and resources, and social influences. Mapping of the findings to the sources of behavior identified the potential intervention functions and policy categories that could be targeted for intervention. The intervention functions found to be most relevant included education, persuasion, modeling, incentivization, and environmental restructuring. Using the TDF, this study found that the primary factors associated with individual practice were opinion leaders, practice conformity, and reputational concerns. These findings are important because they challenge traditional dogma, which relies mainly on dissemination of published evidence, education, and technical skills acquisition to achieve evidence-based practice. Such knowledge allows for the development of sustainable, theory-based interventions for adherence to evidence-based guidelines.
Arthroscopic repair currently represents the gold standard surgical treatment for rotator cuff tears, despite several aspects that are still matter of discussion between surgeons, and it is not clear yet what technique is better with respect to the others. Several evidences, however, support the assumption that the suture configuration is most important than the number of suture anchors used. In this work, we describe a new suture technique for arthroscopic supraspinatus tendon repair using a single double-loaded common suture anchor, and based on a continue and multi-passage suture configuration, with final gross resemblance to the nordic kringle pastries or to the kringle protein domain. Between June 2015 and July 2016, 44 patients (44 shoulders) were treated for supraspinatus tendon tear by means of the kringle suture. Of these, 36 patients have been evaluated from the clinical and radiographic site in the setting of this study, with a follow-up time ranging from 18 to 30 months. During the follow-up period, no major complications were recorded. Two patients reported a transient postoperative stiffness, which completely resolved upon 6 months from surgery. All of the patients referred complete subjective satisfaction and return to their daylife activities without pain. No sign of radiographic subsidence of the suture anchors was found at the radiographic analysis. The kringle suture technique is cost saving, easy to perform, versatile and provides excellent initial fixation strength as required for tendon to bone healing of the reinserted cuff.
Tuberculosis (TB) along with acquired immune deficiency syndrome and malaria rank among the top three fatal infectious diseases which pose threat to global public health, especially in middle and low income countries. TB caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) is an airborne infectious disease and one-third of the world's population gets infected with TB leading to nearly 1·6 million deaths annually. TB drugs are administered in different combinations of four first-line drugs (rifampicin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide and ethambutol) which form the core of treatment regimens in the initial treatment phase of 6-9 months. Several reasons account for the failure of TB therapy such as (i) late diagnosis, (ii) lack of timely and proper administration of effective drugs, (iii) lower availability of less toxic, inexpensive and effective drugs, (iv) long treatment duration, (v) nonadherence to drug regimen and (vi) evolution of drug-resistant TB strains. Drug-resistant TB poses a significant challenge to TB therapy and control programs. In the background of worldwide emergence of 558 000 new TB cases with resistance to rifampicin in the year 2017 and of them, 82% becoming multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB), it is essential to continuously update the knowledge on the mechanisms and molecular basis for evolution of Mtb drug resistance. This narrative and traditional review summarizes the progress on the anti-tubercular agents, their mode of action and drug resistance mechanisms in Mtb. The aim of this review is to provide recent updates on drug resistance mechanisms, newly developed/repurposed anti-TB agents in pipeline and international recommendations to manage MDR-TB. It is based on recent literature and WHO guidelines and aims to facilitate better understanding of drug resistance for effective TB therapy and clinical management.
To develop and validate a patient-reported outcome (PRO) measure of quality of life (QoL), specific to patients with Neurofibromatosis Type 1 (NF1)-associated plexiform neurofibromas (pNFs), suitable for use in clinical efficacy trials. The study was conducted in parallel in the UK and US. Qualitative interviews were conducted with patients to generate questionnaire content. Face and content validity of the draft scale was assessed by cognitive debriefing interviews (CDIs). A postal validation survey was conducted to identify the final version of the questionnaire (the PlexiQoL), establish its unidimensionality, and assess its psychometric properties. Thematic analysis was performed on 42 interview transcripts. Thirty-one CDIs revealed that patients found the draft scale to be comprehensible, relevant, and easy to complete. The postal validation survey was completed by 273 patients. Rasch analysis identified an 18-item unidimensional scale that showed excellent internal consistency, reproducibility, and sensitivity to differences in patient-perceived pNF severity, general health, and the use of pain medication. The PlexiQoL is the first disease-specific PRO assessing the ability of adults with NF-1 associated pNFs to meet their basic human needs. Clinical trials are planned to assess the sensitivity to change of the PlexiQoL in people undergoing treatment for pNFs.
Thumb replantation following complete amputation is a relatively frequent and well-established surgical procedure. In literature many studies report a discrepancy between the objective measurements and the subjective satisfaction of the patients. Nowadays, evaluation of the patient long-term benefit obtained by replantation is uncertain. The aim of this study was to consider the long-term results of 33 thumb replantation procedures. The period considered is from January 1997 to December 2015, 33 subjects fulfilled the study inclusion criteria and were included in the study. We evaluated in each patient: ROM (performing Kapandji test), level and mechanism of amputation, force peak of three grips using Dexter dynamometer (five-handle, key, tri-digital grips), sensibility (using Disk-Criminator and aesthesiometers of Semmes-Weinstein) and subjective perception of disability (using DASH questionnaire). All patients were males, 94% of them returned to their previous occupation. Average follow-up was 9±4 years. The prevalent mechanism of injury was a combined amputation in 58% of cases. Levels involved in more than half of patients were interphalangeal joints and proximal phalanxes. Ratios of strength recovery were: for the five-handle grip equal to 0.90±0.28 kg (p=0.63), 0.78±0.30 kg (p=0.64) for key grip and 0.75±0.32 kg (p=0.78) for tri-digital grip. Results for Kapandji test was 8±2 and for DASH test was 16±21. The protective tactile threshold was recovered in 49% of patients; S2PD test resulted positive in 54% and D2PD test in 39% of cases. Results confirm and strengthen evidence of positive long-term functional outcomes of thumb replantation interventions.
We describe a treatment strategy for an aberrant arterial aneurysm associated with pulmonary sequestration. A 58-year-old man with impending aberrant arterial aneurysm rupture underwent a 2-stage surgery that included an emergency thoracic endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR) of the descending aorta to occlude the origin of the aberrant artery, followed by lobectomy. TEVAR can lead to faster occlusion of the aneurysm and can avoid operative risk of aneurysm rupture during lobectomy. The aberrant artery was broad where it branched off the aorta and had a short neck, rendering primary ligation or stump-forming unsuitable. Pathological findings revealed the fragility of the aberrant artery; thus, its root was prone to breakdown of the stump after simple aneurysmectomy. Furthermore, TEVAR may reduce graft infection during lobectomy in the second surgery. The 2-stage surgery may be useful for aberrant aneurysms complicated by pulmonary sequestration.
Patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) are more likely to develop hyperuricemia and gout. Allopurinol and febuxostat are the most commonly used urate-lowering therapies with established safety and efficacy in CKD patients. The objective of the systematic review is to assess the long-term renal outcomes of allopurinol compared with febuxostat in patients with hyperuricemia and CKD or kidney transplantation. PubMed MEDLINE, Embase, Web of Science, Scopus, and Cochrane CENTRAL databases were searched from inception to December 2019 using the key terms "allopurinol," "febuxostat," "xanthine oxidase inhibitors," "gout suppressants," "hyperuricemia," "gout," "chronic renal insufficiency," and "kidney transplantation." Studies with follow-up duration ≥ 12 months were included. Risk of bias was assessed using the Cochrane Risk Of Bias In Non-randomized Studies-of Interventions (ROBINS-I) tool. Three retrospective observational studies with follow-up duration ranging from 1 to 5 years were reviewed. Febuxostat patients had a significantly higher estimated glomerular filtration rate, reduced risk for renal disease progression, and reduced serum uric acid levels compared with allopurinol patients. All studies had a serious risk of bias. Febuxostat may be more renoprotective than allopurinol in patients with both hyperuricemia and CKD based on evidence from small long-term retrospective studies with serious risk of bias. More methodologically rigorous studies are needed to determine the clinical applicability of these results.
The text describes the theoretical developments of the assignment rules regarding fiscal and monetary policies and the respective roles in macroeconomics stabilisation. Monetary policy emerged as the dominant policy, reducing the active macro-role of fiscal policy to taking care of debt sustainability. This consensus started to change, and a new view has appeared, giving a more active role to fiscal policy. The article concludes with a brief analysis of fiscal rules, followed by a discussion about the European Union fiscal framework, and its necessary revision.
With improvements in in vitro culture techniques there has been a steady shift in practice to transfer embryos at the blastocyst stage (post fertilization day (p.f.d.) 5-7), when embryos reach the endometrial cavity during natural conception. For patients with > 5 zygotes on day 1 of embryo development, fresh blastocyst embryo transfer (ET) increases live birth rates when compared to cleavage stage (p.f.d. 3) transfer. In poorer prognosis patients (≤ 5 zygotes) cleavage stage ET is commonly performed to reduce the risk of cycle cancellation if no embryo survives to the blastocyst stage. However, there is a dearth of randomized controlled trial (RCT) data demonstrating improved live birth rates per cycle for cleavage vs blastocyst stage ET in this subgroup of patients. The hypothesis of the PRECiSE (PooR Embryo Yield Cleavage Stage Versus blaStocyst Embryo Transfer) trial is that blastocyst ET is not inferior to cleavage stage ET with regard to live birth rates per retrieval in poorer prognosis patients. The adoption of routine blastocyst culture for all patients would result in higher rates of single embryo transfers (SET), reduced incidence of multiple pregnancies and simplified laboratory protocols, thereby reducing costs. Multicenter, non-inferiority randomized controlled trial (RCT) comparing blastocyst to cleavage stage embryo transfer in poorer prognosis patients with ≤5 zygotes on day 1 after fertilization. The primary outcome is live birth per retrieval. Secondary outcomes include: time to pregnancy, clinical pregnancy, ongoing pregnancy, miscarriage and multiple pregnancy rate (per retrieval). This trial will enroll 658 women with ≤5 zygotes on day 1 at 6 IVF centers over the course of 22 months. If the hypothesis is proven true, the data from this trial may facilitate the adoption of uniform blastocyst culture in all IVF patients. ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT03764865. Registered 5 December 2019, Protocol issue date: 4 December 2018, Original.
Estrogen has been shown to affect differentiation and proliferation as a mitogen in various neural systems. Olfactory receptor cells are unique within the nervous system, and have the ability to regenerate even after an individual has reached maturity. Olfactory receptor cells also regenerate after experimentally induced degeneration. The purpose of this study is to observe the influence of estrogen depletion induced by ovariectomy on olfactory nerve regeneration. Female mice underwent bilateral ovariectomy at 8 weeks of age and received intraperitoneal administration of methimazole 1 week later. At 2, 4, and 6 weeks after methimazole administration, the olfactory mucosa was analyzed histochemically to determine olfactory epithelium (OE) thickness, olfactory marker protein distribution, and Ki-67 immunoreactivity. Furthermore, 2 weeks after ovariectomy, trkA protein distribution in the OE and nerve growth factor (NGF) levels in the olfactory bulb were determined by immunohistochemistry and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, respectively. Our results showed that in ovariectomized mice OMP, Ki-67, and trkA-immunopositive cells expression decreased at 2 weeks after methimazole injection, a time point at which regeneration is underway. At this same time point, although NGF production in the olfactory bulb had increased before methimazole administration, no differences were observed between the ovx and control groups. These results suggest that estrogen depletion induces a suppressive effect on regeneration of olfactory neurons, and that estrogen may have a potential use in the treatment of sensorineural olfactory dysfunction.
Drug resistance is of increasing concern, especially during the treatments of infectious diseases and cancer. To accelerate the drug discovery process in combating issues of drug resistance, here we developed a computational and experimental strategy to predict drug resistance mutations. Using BCR-ABL as a case study, we successfully recaptured the clinically observed mutations that confer resistance imatinib, nilotinib, dasatinib, bosutinib, and ponatinib. We then experimentally tested the predicted mutants in vitro. We found that although all mutants showed weakened binding strength as expected, the binding constants alone were not a good indicator of drug resistance. Instead, the half-maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) was shown to be a good indicator of the incidence of the predicted mutations, together with change in catalytic efficacy. Our suggested strategy for predicting drug-resistance mutations includes the computational prediction and in vitro selection of mutants with increased IC50 values beyond the drug safety window.
While earlier research often saw Altaic as an exception to the farming/language dispersal hypothesis, recent work on millet cultivation in northeast China has led to the proposal that the West Liao basin was the Neolithic homeland of a Transeurasian language family. Here, we examine the archaeolinguistic evidence used to associate millet farming dispersals with Proto-Macro-Koreanic, analysing the identification of population movements in the archaeological record, the role of small-scale cultivation in language dispersals, and Middle-Late Neolithic demography. We conclude that the archaeological evidence is consistent with the arrival and spread of Proto-Macro-Koreanic on the peninsula in association with millet cultivation in the Middle Neolithic. This dispersal of Proto-Macro-Koreanic occurred before an apparent population crash after 3000 BC, which can probably be linked with a Late Neolithic decline affecting many regions across northern Eurasia. We suggest plague (Yersinia pestis) as one possible cause of an apparently simultaneous population decline in Korea and Japan.
To investigate the safety and efficacy of a stent combined with a linear strand of 125I seeds to treat malignant cancer-associated venous obstruction. We retrospectively analyzed the data of 57 patients with malignant cancer-associated venous obstruction. Nineteen patients underwent the placement of a stent combined with a linear strand of 125I seeds (group A), and 38 patients underwent the placement of a bare stent (group B). The following parameters were compared between the 2 groups of patients: symptom relief rate, duration of venous patency, survival time, quality of life, and adverse events. A total of 34 stents and 527 seeds were implanted in group A, while a total of 57 stents were implanted in group B. The surgery success rate was 96.5%, and no serious complication related to the surgery was reported. Symptoms of venous obstruction improved significantly after surgery. The score of group A decreased from 14.74 ± 0.562 points before surgery to 2.79 ± 1.357 points after surgery(P < .001), and the score of group B decreased from 13.79 ± 1.398 points before surgery to 5.55 ± 3.674 points after surgery (P < .001). The patency rate of group A was significantly higher than that of group B at 1 to 6 months after surgery (100%, 84.2%, 68.4%, 63.2%, 36.8%, 21.1% vs 68.4%, 23.7%, 18.4%, 7.9%, 5.3%, 2.6%, respectively; P < .05). Before treatment, there was no statistically significant difference in the Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS) score between the groups (P = .791). After 1 to 6 months of treatment, the KPS score was significantly higher in group A than in group B (P = .013). The median patency duration in groups A and B was 125 days (95% CI: 80.018-169.982) and 35 days (95% CI: 20.501-49.499), respectively (P < .001). The median survival time of group A was 155 days (95% CI: 110.406-199.594), and that of group B was 98 days (95% CI: 55.712-140.288; P = .325). Multivariate analysis showed that the implantation of a stent combined with a linear strand of 125I seeds and the KPS score (≥80 points) were independent factors of long-term patency after stent placement. The placement of a stent combined with a linear strand of 125I seeds is a safe and effective treatment for venous obstruction caused by malignant tumors. This treatment provides prolonged patency compared with the placement of bare stent, and while it does not significantly improve the survival time of patients, it can improve their quality of life.
We extend to quenched-disordered systems the variational scheme for real-space renormalization group calculations that we recently introduced for homogeneous spin Hamiltonians. When disorder is present our approach gives access to the flow of the renormalized Hamiltonian distribution, from which one can compute the critical exponents if the correlations of the renormalized couplings retain finite range. Key to the variational approach is the bias potential found by minimizing a convex functional in statistical mechanics. This potential reduces dramatically the Monte Carlo relaxation time in large disordered systems. We demonstrate the method with applications to the two-dimensional dilute Ising model, the random transverse field quantum Ising chain, and the random field Ising in two- and three-dimensional lattices.
To assess visual outcomes of Coats disease by classification stage. A retrospective review was conducted on consecutive patients with Coats disease, classified according to Shields classification and with available Snellen visual acuity before and after treatment. There were 160 eyes with Coats disease (stage 1 (n=2) vs stage 2A (n=17) vs stage 2B (n=22) vs stage 3A1 (n=26) vs stage 3A2 (n=40) vs stage 3B (n=42) vs stage 4 (n=9) vs stage 5 (n=2)). By comparison, more advanced stage showed greater frequency of poor presenting visual acuity (<20/200) (0% vs 0% vs 50% vs 35% vs 38% vs 83% vs 100% vs 100%, p<0.001) and higher mean intraocular pressure (17 vs 15 vs 15 vs 15 vs 15 vs 15 vs 37 vs 26, p<0.001). More advanced stage was less likely managed with laser photocoagulation (100% vs 87% vs 48% vs 62% vs 74% vs 35% vs 0% vs 0%, p<0.001) and more likely with cryotherapy (0% vs 47% vs 81% vs 81% vs 82% vs 88% vs 50% vs 100%, p=0.001). More advanced stage was associated with lower frequency of visual acuity ≥20/40 (100% vs 71% vs 5% vs 42% vs 23% vs 5% vs 0% vs 0%, p<0.001) and greater frequency of visual acuity <20/200 (0% vs 12% vs 36% vs31 % vs 45% vs 88% vs 0% vs 100%, p<0.001). Visual acuity in eyes with Coats disease parallels staging with more advanced stage demonstrating poorer visual acuity at presentation and final visit.
Emicizumab is a bi-specific humanized monoclonal antibody mimicking the factor (F) VIII cofactor activity in mediating the activation of FX by FIXa. Recent observations showed that emicizumab when added to pooled normal plasma (PNP), hemophilic plasma or PNP added with unfractionated heparin is able to interfere with coagulation assays. To further explore the mechanisms of assay interference we investigated the effect of emicizumab on global coagulation assays for the PNP added with two direct oral anticoagulants, apixaban or argatroban. Aliquots of PNP were added with purified apixaban or argatroban at a concentration of 500 ng/mL and emicizumab at concentrations ranging from 0 to 100 µg/mL. Plasma samples were then tested for the activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) and for thrombin generation (the latter for the apixaban plasma only). Emicizumab at a 25-50 µg/mL shortened the APTT of the PNP with or without apixaban or argatroban. The extent of correction was greater for the apixaban or argatroban plasma and amounted to 35% or 42%, respectively. The parameters of thrombin generation (lag-time and time-to-peak) for the PNP supplemented with apixaban were shortened by 30% or 25%, respectively and the endogenous thrombin potential and the peak-thrombin were marginally affected. Emicizumab attenuates in vitro the anticoagulant activity of the PNP induced by apixaban or argatroban as documented by the correction of prolonged APTT and velocity of thrombin generation (i.e., lag-time and time-to-peak). Whether the above effects have any relevance in vivo is unknown.
The adoption of school-based running programs has rapidly increased over the last five years in the UK and globally. However, there is currently a lack of information on how these initiatives are implemented, and whether they are generalizable and/or sustainable. This study evaluated the implementation (including reach, fidelity, and dose) of a school-based running program over seven months to inform future delivery. This observational study used a mixed-method, single-group, before-and-after design strengthened by multiple interim measurements to evaluate the implementation of an optional school-based running program. Five state-funded primary schools in Leicestershire, UK, participated, with 17 teachers and 189 (81 boys (47.4%) and 90 girls (52.6%)) Year 5 pupils (aged 9-10 years) from eight classes. During the 2016/2017 academic year, data were collected via several measures (including interviews, focus groups, observations, questionnaires, and teacher implementation logs) at multiple levels (i.e., school and individual) and at multiple time points during implementation. Follow up qualitative data were also collected during 2017/2018. The school-based running program achieved good reach, with 100% of pupils opting to participate at some point during the academic year. All schools implemented the program with good fidelity, although the level of implementation varied between schools and over time. The average number of sessions held per week ranged from 0.94-3.89 with the average distance accumulated per pupil per week ranging from 0.02 to 2.91 kilometers and boys being more likely than girls to be classed as high-level participators. Despite an initial drop off in participation over time, all schools remained engaged in the program and continued to implement it until the end of the school year. Contextual features (e.g., staff capacity and resources) differed between schools and influenced the quality of implementation and the frequency of delivery. The school-based running program is simple, inexpensive, and versatile and can be implemented by schools with relative ease. However, schools are diverse settings, with unique challenges to ongoing delivery. Thus, planned adaptations, specific to each school's context, are likely necessary to sustain participation in the longer term and should be considered prior to implementation.
Positron emission tomography (PET) imaging of the translocator protein (TSPO) is widely used as a biomarker of microglial activation. However, TSPO protein concentration in human brain has not been optimally quantified nor has its regional distribution been compared to TSPO binding. We determined TSPO protein concentration, change with age, and regional distribution by quantitative immunoblotting in autopsied human brain. Brain TSPO protein concentration (>0.1 ng/µg protein) was higher than those reported by in vitro binding assays by at least 2 to 70 fold. TSPO protein distributed widely in both gray and white matter regions, with distribution in major gray matter areas ranked generally similar to that of PET binding in second-generation radiotracer studies. TSPO protein concentration in frontal cortex was high at birth, declined precipitously during the first three months, and increased modestly during adulthood/senescence (10%/decade; vs. 30% for comparison astrocytic marker GFAP). As expected, TSPO protein levels were significantly increased (+114%) in degenerating putamen in multiple system atrophy, providing further circumstantial support for TSPO as a gliosis marker. Overall, findings show some similarities between TSPO protein and PET binding characteristics in the human brain but also suggest that part of the TSPO protein pool might be less available for radioligand binding.
Patients receiving dialysis report very low physical activity. We implemented a pilot trial to assess the feasibility of a pedometer-based intervention to gather preliminary evidence about its impact on physical activity, symptoms, and surrogates of cardiovascular risk. Pilot randomized controlled trial. 60 dialysis patients from San Francisco dialysis clinics. Participants were randomly assigned 1:1 to receiving pedometers with weekly step goals or usual care for 3 months. The primary outcome was step counts, measured using pedometers. Secondary outcomes included physical performance using the Short Physical Performance Battery, the Physical Function and Vitality scales of the 36-Item Short Form Health Survey, the Dialysis Symptoms Index, and the Center for Epidemiologic Studies-Depression Scale, with endothelial function as a secondary and heart rate variability as an exploratory surrogate measure of cardiovascular risk. Targeted enrollment was 50% and targeted completion was 85%. 49% of approached patients were enrolled, and 92% completed the study. After 3 months, patients randomly assigned to the intervention (n=30) increased their average daily steps by 2,256 (95% CI, 978-3,537) more than the 30 controls (P<0.001). Heart rate variability (standard deviation of N-N intervals) increased by 14.94 (95% CI, 0.31-33.56) millisecondsin the intervention group as compared with controls (P = 0.05). There were no statistically significant differences across intervention groups in symptoms, physical performance, or endothelial function. Participants in the intervention group reverted to baseline steps during the postintervention follow-up. The Northern California study setting may limit generalizability. Walking does not capture the full spectrum of physical activity. A short-term pedometer-based intervention led to increased step counts in dialysis patients, but the increase was not sustained. Pedometer-based interventions are feasible for dialysis patients, but future studies are needed to address whether more prolonged interventions can improve physical function or symptoms. Supported by grants from the American Kidney Fund, National Institutes of Health-National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, and International Society of Nephrology. Registered at ClinicalTrials.gov with study identifier NCT02623348.
The degree of coexistence among predators can determine the structure of ecological communities. Niche partitioning is a common strategy applied by species to enhance their coexistence. Diet, habitat, or time use can be responsible for segregation among carnivore species, the latter factor being the least studied in Mediterranean ecosystems. Terrestrial medium-sized carnivores (i.e., mesocarnivores) carry out important functions in ecosystems, and identifying their interactions is essential for their conservation.In this study, we explore the activity of a terrestrial mesocarnivore guild in order to determine seasonal differences in daily activity patterns of competitors and prey. We also investigate how the abundance of a common mesocarnivore prey in the region, small mammals, influences the activity of predators.During a year, camera trap devices (n = 18) were installed in Montseny Natural Park (Catalan Pre-Coastal Range, North-East Iberian Peninsula), a region that hosts five mesocarnivore species. Camera trapping detections were used to estimate their daily activity patterns and corresponding overlaps. We also surveyed small mammal plots (n = 5) in order to calculate prey abundance and test its effect on the relative activity of each carnivore species.Despite all target mesocarnivores are mainly nocturnal, the activity overlap among them varies according to species particularities and season. Red fox (Vulpes vulpes) appears as a generalist species in terms of time use, whereas stone marten (Martes foina) and genet (Genetta genetta) show the most similar activity patterns and both of them seem to be positively influenced by small mammal abundance. Overall, the diversity found in the way mesocarnivore species use time could facilitate their coexistence.Despite activity pattern similarities among carnivore species should not be directly translated to negative interactions, they can have a strong influence in habitat and resource-limited ecosystems. Therefore, activity overlaps should be taken into account when discussing wildlife management actions.
Halitosis (bad breath) can be a cause of anxiety, depression and psychosocial stress, with pathological changes in the oral microbiota playing an important role in its development. Despite its prevalence, studies on the microbiology of halitosis are rare in Nigeria. This study determines the presence of five putative periodontal pathogens viz: Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans, Fusobacterium nucleatum, Porphyromonas gingivalis, Prevotella intermedia and Treponema denticola on the tongue dorsa of halitosis and non-halitosis patients using a 16S rDNA-directed polymerase chain reaction assay. Furthermore, an association of these bacteria with oral malodour [as assessed by volatile sulphur compounds (VSC) measurements] with a portable sulphide monitor, the Halimeter (Interscan Corp, Chatsworth, California), was performed. The results showed that the prevalence of halitosis in this environment as defined by VSC level above 160 ppb is 14.9%. Halitosis is affected by gender with males having it more than the females. Males also tend to present more with self-reported complaints of halitosis than females. Age does not appear to contribute to the incidence of halitosis. Fusobacterium nucleatum, P. gingivalis, P. intermedia are responsible for increased production of VSCs in halitosis patients while A. actinomycetemcomitans and T. denticola appear to play no part in the production of VSCs. Evaluation of halitogenic bacteria and VSCs may potentially become a surrogate biomarker for monitoring halitosis. Targeted assessment of putative halitogenic bacteria may provide a rapid point-of-care diagnostic tool for halitosis.
We demonstrate a sub-ps resolution clock-offset measurement based on linear optical sampling technique via a 114 km fiber link by transferring a dual optical frequency comb. The time deviation between two distance clocks is 110 fs at 1 s and 22 fs at 100 s averaging, and the standard deviation of the measured clock offset is 237 fs. This sub-ps level of clock offset measurement should benefit many time synchronization applications via long fiber links.
Lepidopterism is a term that refers to a spectrum of medical conditions, typically involving the skin, that result from contact with the adult or larval forms of certain butterflies and moths. There are more than 165,000 species of these insects, however, only about 12 species are known to harm humans, most commonly in the form of contact dermatitis. Among these species, the Megalopyge opercularis, commonly called the "Puss Caterpillar", is known to cause a painful and pruritic cutaneous reaction when its venom encounters the skin. Although caterpillar stings are not a common etiology of dermatological rashes, physicians must perform a detailed history and have a high degree of suspicion to arrive to the correct diagnosis and avoid unnecessary medications and therapeutics. We present a case of a 14-month-old boy who presents to the pediatric clinic with a unilateral red rash on the anterior aspect of the left leg, from the distal thigh to the shin. The parents report that the boy was sitting in the park, when he suddenly started to cry. They state that the rash began to spread and that red marks are growing. The patient's parents brought the caterpillar specimen in a bag, clinching the diagnosis. The patient was treated with antihistamine drugs for symptom relief and was recommended to wash thoroughly the area with soap and water. The patient returned to the clinic four days later and the rash had resolved. When encountering an acute onset rash in a patient with recent exposure to nature environments and other open spaces with trees, lepidopterism should be considered in the differential diagnosis and promptly treated. Furthermore, the physician must educate the patients on how to avoid exposure, and special care should be implemented with asthmatic and atopic patients, because although rare, anaphylactic reactions to these stings have been reported.
This study aimed to determine the effects of melatonin on irradiation-induced apoptosis and oxidative stress in the brainstem region of Wistar rats. Therefore, the animals underwent whole-brain X-radiation with a single dose of 25 Gy in the presence or absence of melatonin pretreatment at a concentration of 100 mg/kg BW. The rats were allocated into four groups (10 rats in each group): namely, vehicle control (VC), 100 mg/kg of melatonin alone (MLT), irradiation-only (RAD), and irradiation plus 100 mg/kg of melatonin (RAM). An hour before irradiation, the animals received intraperitoneal (IP) melatonin and then were killed after 6 hr, followed by measurement of nitric oxide (NO), malondialdehyde (MDA), superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), catalase (CAT), and total antioxidant capacity (TAC) in the brainstem region. Furthermore, the western blot analysis technique was performed to assess the caspase-3 expression level. Results showed significantly higher MDA and NO levels in the brainstem tissues for the RAD group when compared with the VC group (p < .001). Moreover, the irradiated rats exhibited a significant decrease in the levels of CAT, SOD, GPx, and TAC (p < .01, p < .001, p < .001, and p < .001, respectively) in comparison to the VC group. The results of apoptosis assessment revealed that the expression level of caspase-3 significantly rose in the RAD group in comparison with the VC group (p < .001). Pretreatment with melatonin ameliorated the radiation-induced adverse effects by decreasing the MDA and NO levels (p < .001) and increasing the antioxidant enzyme activities (p < .001). Consequently, the caspase-3 protein expression level in the RAM group showed a significant reduction in comparison with the RAD group (p < .001). In conclusion, melatonin approximately showed a capacity for neuroprotective activity in managing irradiation-induced oxidative stress and apoptosis in the brainstem of rats; however, the use of melatonin as a neuroprotective agent in humans requires further study, particularly clinical trials.
This review aims to give an update on research in the past 5 years regarding the co-occurrence, assessment and treatment of obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) in individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Recent findings affirm not only a high prevalence of OCD amongst individuals with ASD (and vice versa) but also notable variability in assessment methods and results. There remain limited validated measures with which to assess OCD in those with ASD, which are often difficult to differentiate. Adapted and function-based CBT programs specifically designed for ASD demonstrate promising results, but additional randomised controlled trials are needed. Though some exciting progress has been made in the area of treatment of OCD in ASD, progress remains hampered by inconsistent measurement of OCD in ASD. Future priorities include development of brief, valid assessment tools and determining the efficacy and effectiveness of newly developed and adapted treatment programs.
Purpose: To compare the surgical results of pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) and scleral buckling (SB) using the same vitreoretinal viewing system for rhegmatogenous retinal detachment (RRD) Methods: The study was a retrospective analysis of the medical records of 52 eyes (52 patients) with uncomplicated RRD located in superior quadrants. Eyes with pseudophakia or complications were not included. Thirty-one eyes underwent PPV using a wide-angle viewing system (WAVS) and 21 eyes received SB using the same WAVS combined with a chandelier endoilluminator. The primary anatomical success rate was the main outcome, defined as the proportion of eyes with successful reattachment of the retina. Results: The primary anatomical success rate was 90.5% in the SB group and 90.3% in the PPV group. Both groups achieved 100% of the final success rate. Although no significant difference was observed between the two groups, temporary intraocular pressure elevation and post-operative cataract formation were more frequent in the PPV group. In patients under the age of 55, post-operative cataract formation was significantly less common in the SB group. (P = .045) Conclusions: Under the same vitreoretinal visualization techniques, both SB and PPV had similar anatomical success rates. Chandelier‑assistance WAVS may increase the popularity of SB to treat primary RRD, allowing many patients to receive the benefits of SB surgery.
Controlled human malaria infection (CHMI) studies involve the deliberate infection of healthy volunteers with malaria parasites under controlled conditions to study immune responses and/or test drug or vaccine efficacy. An empirical ethics study was embedded in a CHMI study at a Kenyan research programme to explore stakeholders' perceptions and experiences of deliberate infection and moral implications of these. Data for this qualitative study were collected through focus group discussions, in-depth interviews and non-participant observation. Sixty-nine participants were involved, including CHMI study volunteers, community representatives and research staff. Data were managed using QSR Nvivo 10 and analysed using an inductive-deductive approach, guided by ethics literature. CHMI volunteers had reasonable understanding of the study procedures. Decisions to join were influenced by study incentives, trust in the research institution, their assessment of associated burdens and motivation to support malaria vaccine development. However, deliberate malaria infection was a highly unusual research strategy for volunteers, community representatives and some study staff. Volunteers' experiences of physical, emotional and social burdens or harms were often greater than anticipated initially, and fluctuated over time, related to specific procedures and events. Although unlikely to deter volunteers' participation in similar studies in furture, we argue that the dissonance between level of understanding of the burdens involved and actual experiences are morally relevant in relation to community engagement, informed consent processes, and ongoing support for volunteers and research staff. We further argue that ethics oversight of CHMI studies should take account of these issues in deciding whether consent, engagement and the balance of benefits and harms are reasonable in a given context.
According to the dual mating strategy model, in short-term mating contexts women should forego paternal investment qualities in favor of mates with well-developed secondary sexual characteristics and dominant behavioral displays. We tested whether this model explains variation in women's preferences for facial masculinity and beardedness in male faces. Computer-generated composites that had been morphed to appear ± 50% masculine were rated by 671 heterosexual women (M age = 31.72 years, SD = 6.43) for attractiveness when considering them as a short-term partner, long-term partner, a co-parent, or a friend. They then completed the Revised Sociosexual Inventory (SOI-R) to determine their sexual openness on dimensions of desire, behavior, and attitudes. Results showed that women's preferences were strongest for average facial masculinity, followed by masculinized faces, with feminized faces being least attractive. In contrast to past research, facial masculinity preferences were stronger when judging for co-parenting partners than for short-term mates. Facial masculinity preferences were also positively associated with behavioral SOI, negatively with desire, and were unrelated to global or attitudinal SOI. Women gave higher ratings for full beards than clean-shaven faces. Preferences for beards were higher for co-parenting and long-term relationships than short-term relationships, although these differences were not statistically significant. Preferences for facial hair were positively associated with global and attitudinal SOI, but were unrelated to behavioral SOI and desire. Although further replication is necessary, our findings indicate that sexual openness is associated with women's preferences for men's facial hair and suggest variation in the association between sociosexuality and women's facial masculinity preferences.
COVID-19 infection is associated with several cardiac complications with high rates of adverse outcomes. Cardiac imaging has different utility in different clinical scenarios, and the importance of minimizing healthcare worker exposure should be considered. Cardiac imaging should only be ordered if its benefits outweigh its risks, with anticipated changes in acute treatment and outcomes, and no suitable alternative of sufficient adequacy is available. Indications for advanced cardiac imaging for COVID-19 patients in the acute phase are limited, although follow-up imaging in the convalescent stage may provide prognostic importance in recovered COVID-19 patients with positive troponin or decompensated heart failure.
TGFβ is a key player in cartilage homeostasis and OA pathology. However, few data are available on the role of TGFβ signalling in the different OA phenotypes. Here, we analysed the TGFβ pathway by transcriptomic analysis in six mouse models of OA. We have brought together seven expert laboratories in OA pathophysiology and, used inter-laboratories standard operating procedures and quality controls to increase experimental reproducibility and decrease bias. As none of the available OA models covers the complexity and heterogeneity of the human disease, we used six different murine models of knee OA: from post-traumatic/mechanical models (meniscectomy (MNX), MNX and hypergravity (HG-MNX), MNX and high fat diet (HF-MNX), MNX and seipin knock-out (SP-MNX)) to aging-related OA and inflammatory OA (collagenase-induced OA (CIOA)). Four controls (MNX-sham, young, SP-sham, CIOA-sham) were added. OsteoArthritis Research Society International (OARSI)-based scoring of femoral condyles and ribonucleic acid (RNA) extraction from tibial plateau samples were done by single operators as well as the transcriptomic analysis of the TGFβ family pathway by Custom TaqMan® Array Microfluidic Cards. The transcriptomic analysis revealed specific gene signatures in each of the six models; however, no gene was deregulated in all six OA models. Of interest, we found that the combinatorial Gdf5-Cd36-Ltbp4 signature might discriminate distinct subgroups of OA: Cd36 upregulation is a hallmark of MNX-related OA while Gdf5 and Ltbp4 upregulation is related to MNX-induced OA and CIOA. These findings stress the OA animal model heterogeneity and the need of caution when extrapolating results from one model to another.
In breast cancer studies, combining quantitative radiomic with genomic signatures can help identifying and characterizing radiogenomic phenotypes, in function of molecular receptor status. Biomedical imaging processing lacks standards in radiomic feature normalization methods and neglecting feature normalization can highly bias the overall analysis. This study evaluates the effect of several normalization techniques to predict four clinical phenotypes such as estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2), and triple negative (TN) status, by quantitative features. The Cancer Imaging Archive (TCIA) radiomic features from 91 T1-weighted Dynamic Contrast Enhancement MRI of invasive breast cancers were investigated in association with breast invasive carcinoma miRNA expression profiling from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Three advanced machine learning techniques (Support Vector Machine, Random Forest, and Naïve Bayesian) were investigated to distinguish between molecular prognostic indicators and achieved an area under the ROC curve (AUC) values of 86%, 93%, 91%, and 91% for the prediction of ER+ versus ER-, PR+ versus PR-, HER2+ versus HER2-, and triple-negative, respectively. In conclusion, radiomic features enable to discriminate major breast cancer molecular subtypes and may yield a potential imaging biomarker for advancing precision medicine.
Abuse of alcohol and tobacco could exacerbate HIV pathogenesis by transferring materials through exosomes (small nanovesicles). Exosomes present a stable and accessible source of information concerning the health and/or disease status of patients, which can provide diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers for myriad conditions. Therefore, we aimed to study the specific exosomal proteins that are altered in both HIV-infected subjects and alcohol/tobacco users. Exosomes were isolated from plasma of the following subjects: a) HIV-negative subjects (healthy), b) HIV-positive subjects (HIV), c) HIV-negative alcohol drinkers (drinkers), d) HIV-negative tobacco smokers (smokers), e) HIV-positive drinkers (HIV + drinkers), and f) HIV-positive smokers (HIV + smokers). Quantitative proteomic profiling was then performed from these exosomes. Sixteen proteins were significantly altered in the HIV group, ten in drinkers, four in HIV + drinkers, and fifteen in smokers compared to healthy subjects. Only one protein, fibulin-1 (FBLN1), was significantly altered in HIV + smokers. Interestingly, hemopexin was not significantly altered in drinkers or HIV patients but was significantly altered in HIV + drinkers. Further, our study is the first to show properdin expression in plasma exosomes, which was decreased in HIV + smokers and HIV + drinkers compared to HIV patients. The present findings suggest that hemopexin and properdin show potential as markers for physiological effects that may arise in HIV-infected individuals who abuse alcohol and tobacco. Graphical abstract This study presents a proteomic analysis of plasma-derived exosomes from HIV-infected alcohol drinkers and smokers. Among the proteins altered due to drug-abuse, hemopexin and properdin were of highest significance. These proteins can be potential biomarkers for co-morbid conditions associated with drug abuse in HIV-patients.
Breast adenomyoepithelioma (AME) is a rare tumor composed of myoepithelial cells and ductal or luminal cells. Most cases of AME are benign, but rare cases in which either or both cell types exhibited malignant features have been reported. Due to its rarity, no diagnostic criteria for malignancy have been established for AME. A 64-year-old woman presented with a mass in her right breast. Fine-needle aspiration cytology and biopsy examinations revealed lesions composed of spindle-shaped cells and round epithelial cells. AME was suspected, and partial mastectomy was performed. The tumor specimen showed AME, which mainly consisted of spindle-shaped myoepithelial cells with slight atypia, admixed with tubular luminal cells and small areas of atypical intraductal proliferative lesions. No apparent features of malignancy, such as necrosis or invasion, were seen in the myoepithelial cells or the luminal or intraductal component. However, the atypical intraductal component exhibited focal nuclear atypia, a cribriform pattern, and moderate to strong membranous human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) immunoreactivity. HER2 amplification was detected in focal regions of the atypical intraductal component by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), which resulted in a diagnosis of AME with ductal carcinoma in situ. The patient did not receive further therapy and was free from tumor recurrence at 23 months after the operation. HER2 FISH might be useful for evaluating suspected AME tumors for malignancy when an atypical ductal lesion that lacks definitive features of malignancy is encountered.
Type 2 immune dysfunction contributes to acute lung injury and lethality following haemorrhagic shock (HS) and trauma. Group 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC2s) play a significant role in the regulation of type 2 immune responses. However, the role of ILC2 in post-HS acute lung injury and the underlying mechanism has not yet been elucidated. To investigate the regulatory role of ILC2s in HS-induced acute lung injury and the underlying mechanism in patients and animal model. Circulating markers of type 2 immune responses in patients with HS and healthy controls were characterised. Using a murine model of HS, the role of high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1)-receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE) signalling in regulation of ILC2 proliferation, survival and function was determined. And the role of ILC2 in inducing type 2 immune dysfunction was assessed as well. The number of ILC2s was significantly increased in the circulation of patients with HS that was correlated with the increase in the markers of type 2 immune responses in the patients. Animal studies showed that HMGB1 acted via RAGE to induce ILC2 accumulation in the lungs by promoting ILC2 proliferation and decreasing ILC2 death. The expansion of ILC2s resulted in type 2 cytokines secretion and eosinophil infiltration in the lungs, both of which contributed to lung injury after HS. These results indicate that HMGB1-RAGE signalling plays a critical role in regulating ILC2 biological function that aggravates type 2 lung inflammation following HS.
South Asia has >50% of the global burden of low birth weight (LBW). The objective was to determine the extent to which maternal nutrition interventions commenced before conception or in the 1st trimester improved fetal growth in this region. This was a secondary analysis of combined newborn anthropometric data for the South Asian sites (India and Pakistan) in the Women First Preconception Maternal Nutrition Trial. Participants were 972 newborn of mothers who were poor, rural, unselected on basis of nutritional status, and had been randomized to receive a daily lipid-based micronutrient supplement commencing ≥3 months prior to conception (Arm 1), in the 1st trimester (Arm 2), or not at all (Arm 3). An additional protein-energy supplement was provided if BMI <20 kg/m2 or gestational weight gain was less than guidelines. Gestational age was established in the 1st trimester and newborn anthropometry obtained <48-hours post-delivery. Mean differences at birth between Arm 1 vs. 3 were length +5.3mm and weight +89g. Effect sizes (ES) and relative risks (RR) with 95% CI for Arm 1 vs. 3 were: length-for-age Z-score (LAZ) +0.29 (0.11-0.46, p = 0.0011); weight-for-age Z-score (WAZ) +0.22 (0.07-0.37, p = 0.0043); weight-to-length-ratio-for-age Z-score (WLRAZ) +0.27 (0.06-0.48, p = 0.0133); LAZ<-2, 0.56 (0.38-0.82, p = 0.0032); WAZ <-2, 0.68 (0.53-0.88, p = 0.0028); WLRAZ <-2, 0.76 (0.64-0.89, p = 0.0011); small-for-gestational-age (SGA), 0.74 (0.66-0.83, p<0.0001); low birth weight 0.81 (0.66-1.00, p = 0.0461). For Arm 2 vs. 3, LAZ, 0.21 (0.04-0.38); WAZ <-2, 0.70 (0.53-0.92); and SGA, 0.88 (0.79-0.97) were only marginally different. ES or RR did not differ for preterm birth for either Arm 1 vs. 3 or 2 vs. 3. In conclusion, point estimates for both continuous and binary anthropometric outcomes were consistently more favorable when maternal nutrition supplements were commenced ≥3 months prior to conception indicating benefits to fetal growth of improving women's nutrition in this population.
Large single crystals serve as an ideal platform for investigating intrinsic material properties and optoelectronic applications. Here we develop a method, namely, room-temperature liquid diffused separation induced crystallization that uses silicone oil to separate the solvent from the perovskite precursors, to grow high-quality perovskite single crystals. The growth kinetics of perovskite single crystals using this method is elucidated, and their structural and optoelectronic properties are carefully characterized. The resultant perovskite single crystals, taking CH3NH3PbBr3 as an example, exhibit approximately 1 µs lifetime, a low trap density of 4.4 × 109 cm-3, and high yield of 92%, which are appealing for visible light or X-ray detection. We hope our findings will be of great significance for the continued advancement of high-quality perovskite single crystals, through a better understanding of growth mechanisms and their deployment in various optoelectronics. The diffused separation induced crystallization strategy presents a major step forward for advancing the field on perovskite single crystals.
During the past decade, the rapid development of high-throughput next-generation sequencing technologies has significantly reinforced our understanding of the role of epigenetics in health and disease. Altered functions of epigenetic modifiers lead to the disruption of the host epigenome, ultimately inducing carcinogenesis and disease progression. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is an endemic herpesvirus that is associated with several malignant tumours, including B-cell related lymphomas. In EBV-infected cells, the epigenomic landscape is extensively reshaped by viral oncoproteins, which directly interact with epigenetic modifiers and modulate their function. This process is fundamental for the EBV life cycle, particularly for the establishment and maintenance of latency in B cells; however, the alteration of the host epigenetic machinery also contributes to the dysregulated expression of several cellular genes, including tumour suppressor genes, which can drive lymphoma development. This review outlines the molecular mechanisms underlying the epigenetic manipulation induced by EBV that lead to transformed B cells, as well as novel therapeutic interventions to target EBV-associated B-cell lymphomas.
Natural killer (NK)-cell-based immunotherapy may overcome obstacles to effective T-cell-based immunotherapy such as the presence of genomic alterations in IFN response genes and antigen presentation machinery. All immunotherapy approaches may be abrogated by the presence of an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment present in many solid tumor types, including head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). Here, we studied the role of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSC) in suppressing NK-cell function in HNSCC. The ability of peripheral and tumor-infiltrating MDSC from mice bearing murine oral cancer 2 (MOC2) non-T-cell-inflamed tumors and from patients with HNSCC to suppress NK-cell function was studied with real-time impedance and ELISpot assays. The therapeutic efficacy of SX-682, a small-molecule inhibitor of CXCR1 and CXCR2, was assessed in combination with adoptively transferred NK cells. Mice bearing MOC2 tumors pathologically accumulate peripheral CXCR2+ neutrophilic-MDSC (PMN-MDSC) that traffic into tumors and suppress NK-cell function through TGFβ and production of H2O2. Inhibition of MDSC trafficking with orally bioavailable SX-682 significantly abrogated tumor MDSC accumulation and enhanced the tumor infiltration, activation, and therapeutic efficacy of adoptively transferred murine NK cells. Patients with HNSCC harbor significant levels of circulating and tumor-infiltrating CXCR1/2+ CD15+ PMN-MDSC and CD14+ monocytic-MDSC. Tumor MDSC exhibited greater immunosuppression than those in circulation. HNSCC tumor MDSC immunosuppression was mediated by multiple, independent, cell-specific mechanisms including TGFβ and nitric oxide. The clinical study of CXCR1/2 inhibitors in combination with adoptively transferred NK cells is warranted.
When a traumatic brain injury (TBI) occurs, low-pressure regions inside the skull can cause vapor contents in the cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) to expand and collapse, a phenomenon known as cavitation. When these microbubbles (MBs) collapse, shock waves are radiated outward and are known to damage surrounding materials in other applications, like the steel foundation of boat propellers, so it is alarming to realize the damage that cavitation inflicts on vulnerable brain tissue. Using cell-laden microfibers, the longitudinal morphological response that mouse astrocytes have to surrounding cavitation in vitro is visually analyzed. Astrocytic damage is evident immediately after cavitation when compared to a control sample, as their processes retract. Forty-eight hours later, the astrocytes appeared to spread across the fibers, as normal. This study also analyzes the gene expression changes that occur post-cavitation via quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) methods. After cavitation a number of pro-inflammatory genes are upregulated, including TNFα, IL-1β, C1q, Serping1, NOS1, IL-6, and JMJD3. Taken together, these results confirm that surrounding cavitation is detrimental to astrocytic function, and yield opportunities to further the understanding of how protective headgear can minimize or eliminate the occurrence of cavitation.
Coalfield fires during coal mining have become a major problem in the world today. To effectively prevent such disasters, we established an experimental platform to measure the spontaneous combustion characteristics of large-scale pressurized coal; thermal analysis experiments and microscopic analysis of briquettes under different axial pressures were carried out. It can be seen from the results that when the axial pressure is 4 MPa, the heating rate of the oxidative combustion of coal samples is accelerated, the crossing point temperature is lower (reduced by 71.09 °C), the activation energy is reduced (the second stage is decreased by 21.3 kJ/mol), and the oxidative combustion is more intense. Simultaneously, the porosity evolution process of briquettes under different axial pressures is simulated. Through calculation, it can be seen that the porosity and thermal conductivity show a linear increasing trend. The basis for the increase in the internal oxygen supply channels and increase in oxygen consumption when the axial pressure is 4 MPa is given. Through thermogravimetric-differential scanning calorimetry analysis, it is found that the maximum mass loss rate and maximum mass growth rate of residual coal after combustion under an axial pressure of 4 MPa are low, the residual rate after combustion is large, and the flammability rate is low when reoxidized, while complete combustion oxidation releases more heat. The application of axial pressure will change the combustion characteristics of briquettes, and the promotion effect is more obvious at 4 MPa. Analyzing the laws of the coal-oxygen composite reaction under different axial pressures provides theoretical guidance for the prevention and control of multistress coupling fields in coalfield-fire areas.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a key mediator of angiogenesis, plays a key role in physiological processes and is a major contributor to several diseases including cancer and psoriasis. Anti-VEGF therapies are widely used as cancer and ophthalmological treatments. There is some evidence that VEGF blockade may have utility in the management of psoriasis, although their potential has been largely unexplored. We hypothesized that a human skin organ culture could provide a stable ex vivo model in which the cutaneous microvascular network could be studied and experimentally manipulated. Punch biopsies (3 mm) of skin, donated by healthy individuals (39-72 years old, n = 5), were incubated with monoclonal antibody (mAb) to human VEGF (bevacizumab) at doses based on data from animal and clinical studies. After 3-day culture, cell death and proliferation as well as vascular endothelial cell changes were assessed using quantitative immunohistomorphometry. Anti-VEGF mAb at 0.8 mg/mL induced a significant increase in cleaved caspase-3 expression in CD31+ cells (p < 0.05). None of the doses tested increased TUNEL or decreased Ki-67 expression in the basal layer of the epidermis, confirming the model's viability. In addition, the lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) assay showed no increase in LDH activity in treated samples compared to untreated control. The highest anti-VEGF mAb dose (0.8 mg/mL) induced an increase in TUNEL expression in the upper epidermis, which did not correlate with caspase-3 immunoreactivity. Further investigation revealed that anti-VEGF mAb did not change the expression of markers of terminal differentiation such as keratin 10, filaggrin, and involucrin, suggesting that VEGF depletion does not affect keratinocyte terminal differentiation. In contrast to the control group, levels of VEGF protein were undetectable in the culture supernatant of samples treated with 0.8 mg/mL of anti-VEGF mAb, suggesting sufficient dose. Our pilot study provides the first evidence that anti-VEGF therapy promotes endothelial cell apoptosis in human skin ex vivo. Our pragmatic human skin organ culture assay offers a valuable tool for future preclinical endothelial cell and translational microvascular network/anti-angiogenesis research in human skin.
Background and purpose - The increasing use of hip arthroplasties in young patients will inevitably lead to more revision procedures at younger ages, especially as the outcome of their primary procedures is inferior compared with older patients. However, data on the outcome of revision hip arthroplasty in young patients are limited. We determined the failure rates of revised hip prostheses performed in patients under 55 years using Dutch Arthroplasty Register (LROI) data.Patients and methods - All 1,037 revised hip arthroplasty procedures in patients under 55 years at the moment of revision registered in the LROI during the years 2007-2018 were included. Kaplan-Meier survival analyses were used to calculate failure rates of revised hip arthroplasties with endpoint re-revision for any reason. Competing risk analyses were used to determine the probability of re-revision for the endpoints infection, dislocation, acetabular and femoral loosening, while other reasons for revisions and death were considered as competing risks.Results - Mean follow-up of revision procedures was 3.9 years (0.1-12). 214 re-revisions were registered. The most common reason for the index revision was dislocation (20%); the most common reason for re-revision was infection (35%). The 5-year failure rate of revised hip prostheses was 22% (95% CI 19-25), and the 10-year failure rate was 28% (CI 24-33). The 10-year cumulative failure rates of index revisions with endpoint re-revision for infection was 7.8% (CI 6.1-9.7), acetabular loosening 7.0% (CI 4.1-11), dislocation 3.8% (CI 2.6-5.2), and femoral loosening 2.7% (CI 1.6-4.1). The 10-year implant failure rate of index revisions for infection was 45% (CI 37-55) with endpoint re-revision for any reason.Interpretation - Failure rate of revised hip prostheses in patients under 55 years is worrisome, especially regarding index revisions due to infection. This information facilitates realistic expectations for these young patients at the time of primary THA.
We consider a generic interaction-redistribution model of vegetation dynamics to investigate the formation of patchy vegetation in semi-arid and arid landscapes. First, we perform a weakly nonlinear analysis in the neighborhood of the symmetry-breaking instability. Following this analysis, we construct the bifurcation diagram of the biomass density. The weakly nonlinear analysis allows us to establish the condition under which the transition from super- to subcritical symmetry-breaking instability takes place. Second, we generate a random distribution of localized patches of vegetation numerically. This behavior occurs in regimes where a bare state coexists with a uniform biomass density. Field observations allow to estimate the total biomass density and the range of facilitative and competitive interactions.
This study aimed to assess the efficacy of using MR imaging findings for differentiating cutaneous malignant melanoma (cMM) from cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC). Preoperative MR images of patients with histopathologically proven primary cMM and primary cSCC were retrospectively reviewed and compared between the two pathologies. A total of 16 patients with primary cMM (7 men and 9 women; age range, 45-97 years; median age, 75 years) and 49 with primary cSCC (37 men and 12 women; age range, 46-90 years; median age, 76 years) were enrolled in this study. Intratumoral T1 hyperintensity compared to that of the dermis was more frequently observed in cMM than in cSCC (50 % vs. 4 %; p < 0.01). Superficial depression (51 % vs. 19 %; p < 0.05), superficial irregular margins (55 % vs. 25 %; p <  0.05), and reticular or linear T2 hyperintensity (27 % vs. 0 %; p <  0.05) were more frequently observed in cSCC than in cMM, respectively. cMM predominantly exhibited intratumoral T1 hyperintensity, whereas cSCC predominantly exhibited superficial depression, superficial irregular margins, reticular or linear T2 hyperintensity.
Wine is a widely consumed beverage thanks to its unique and pleasant sensory properties [...].
The objective of this review is to map the nature and extent of forgiveness facilitation intervention implemented and evaluated in palliative care contexts. Spiritual beliefs often include reconciliation and forgiveness, which are critical to patients and families in palliative care. Forgiveness facilitation can represent a valuable response as a multidisciplinary and non-pharmacological intervention to reduce suffering. Studies including palliative care patients aged 18 years or over and assisted by palliative care teams, including all healthcare professionals, chaplains, and volunteers, were included in this review. This scoping review is based on JBI methodology. The search was conducted in June 2017 and updated in December 2018 using international databases and gray literature in English, Spanish, German, Italian, and Portuguese. A total of 23 articles were included in this review. The results suggest a growing interest in forgiveness facilitation in palliative care in different spiritual and religious traditions. Most studies are based on a psychological perspective. Several activities related to the intervention have been identified, but few details or characteristics are described. Social workers, nurses, doctors, and psychologists were most identified as healthcare staff involved in forgiveness facilitation. The outcomes related to the intervention are mental, physical, and relational well-being; quality of life, decision-making and communication; self-esteem and hope; depression, anger, and anxiety; and inner peace. Forgiveness facilitation is critical in palliative care and is grounded in a multidisciplinary approach, but further evidence is needed to inform clinical implementation. These results open new perspectives for research and training on palliative healthcare staff.
Murine muscle stem cells (MuSCs) experience a transition from quiescence to activation that is required for regeneration, but it remains unknown if the trajectory and dynamics of activation change with age. Here, we use time-lapse imaging and single cell RNA-seq to measure activation trajectories and rates in young and aged MuSCs. We find that the activation trajectory is conserved in aged cells, and we develop effective machine-learning classifiers for cell age. Using cell-behavior analysis and RNA velocity, we find that activation kinetics are delayed in aged MuSCs, suggesting that changes in stem cell dynamics may contribute to impaired stem cell function with age. Intriguingly, we also find that stem cell activation appears to be a random walk-like process, with frequent reversals, rather than a continuous linear progression. These results support a view of the aged stem cell phenotype as a combination of differences in the location of stable cell states and differences in transition rates between them.
In the current information age, the realization of memory devices with energy efficient design, high storage density, nonvolatility, fast access, and low cost is still a great challenge. As a promising technology to meet these stringent requirements, nonvolatile multistates memory (NMSM) has attracted lots of attention over the past years. Owing to the capability to store data in more than a single bit (0 or 1), the storage density is dramatically enhanced without scaling down the memory cell, making memory devices more efficient and less expensive. Multistates in a single cell also provide an unconventional in-memory computing platform beyond the Von Neumann architecture and enable neuromorphic computing with low power consumption. In this review, an in-depth perspective is presented on the recent progress and challenges on the device architectures, material innovation, working mechanisms of various types of NMSMs, including flash, magnetic random-access memory (MRAM), resistive random-access memory (RRAM), ferroelectric random-access memory (FeRAM), and phase-change memory (PCM). The intriguing properties and performance of these NMSMs, which are the key to realizing highly integrated memory hierarchy, are discussed and compared.
The reliability of magnetoencephalography (MEG) resting-state functional connectivity in schizophrenia (SZ) is unknown as previous research has focused on healthy controls (HC). Here, we examined reliability in 26 participants (13-SZ, 13-HC). Eyes opened and eyes closed resting-state data were collected on 4 separate occasions during 2 visits, 1 week apart. For source modeling, we used minimum norm software to apply dynamic statistical parametric mapping. Source analyses compared the following functional connectivity metrics from each data run: coherence (coh), imaginary coherence (imcoh), pairwise phase consistency (ppc), phase-locking value (plv), phase lag index (pli), weighted phase lag index (wpli), and weighted phase lag index debiased (wpli2). Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs) were calculated for whole brain, network, and network pair averages. For reliability, ICCs above 0.75 = excellent, above 0.60 = good, above 0.40 = fair, and below 0.40 = poor reliability. We found the reliability of these metrics varied greatly depending on frequency band, network, network pair, and participant group examined. Broadband (1-58 Hz) whole brain averages in both HC and SZ showed excellent reliability for wpli2, and good to fair reliability for ppc, plv, and coh. Broadband network averages showed excellent to good reliability across 1 hour and 1 week for coh, imcoh, ppc, plv, wpli within default mode, cognitive control, and visual networks in HC, while the same metrics had excellent to fair reliability in SZ. Regional network pair averages showed good to fair reliability for coh, ppc, plv within default mode, cognitive control and visual network pairs in HC and SZ. In general, HC had higher reliability compared to SZ, and the default mode, cognitive control, and visual networks had higher reliability compared to somatosensory and auditory networks. Similar reliability levels occurred for both eyes opened and eyes closed resting-states for most metrics. The functional connectivity metrics of coh, ppc, and plv performed best across 1 hour and 1 week in HC and SZ. We also found that SZ had reduced coh, plv, and ppc in the dmn average and pair values indicating dysconnectivity in SZ. These findings encourage collecting both eyes opened and eyes closed resting-state MEG, while demonstrating that clinical populations may differ in reliability.
This report describes the treatment of Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC)-3-producing multidrug-resistant K. pneumoniae with ceftazidime/avibactam (CAZ-AVI) in a patient who developed postneurosurgical meningitis and bacteremia. Therapeutic drug monitoring of cerebrospinal fluid and blood samples demonstrated CAZ-AVI concentration levels 20-fold greater than the minimum inhibitory concentration in the first 60 minutes postinfusion, providing evidence for the utility of CAZ-AVI in treating KPC-Klebsiella pneumoniae central nervous system infections.
Species colonizations (both natural and anthropogenic) can be associated with genetic founder effects, where founding populations demonstrate significant genetic bottlenecks compared to native populations. Yet, many successfully established free-living species exhibit little reduction in genetic diversity-possibly due to multiple founding events and/or high propagule pressure during introductions. Less clear, however, is whether parasites may show differential signatures to their free-living  hosts. Parasites with indirect life cycles may particularly be more prone to founder effects (i.e., more genetically depauperate) because of inherently smaller founding populations and complex life cycles. We investigated this question in native (east coast) and introduced (west coast) North American populations of a host snail Tritia obsoleta (formerly Ilyanassa obsoleta, the eastern mudsnail) and four trematode parasite species that obligately infect it. We examined genetic diversity, gene flow, and population structure using two molecular markers (mitochondrial and nuclear) for the host and the parasites. In the host snail, we found little to no evidence of genetic founder effects, while the trematode parasites showed significantly lower genetic diversity in the introduced versus native ranges. Moreover, the parasite's final host influenced infection prevalence and genetic diversity: Trematode species that utilized fish as final hosts demonstrated lower parasite diversity and heightened founder effects in the introduced range than those trematodes using birds as final hosts. In addition, inter-regional gene flow was strongest for comparisons that included the putative historical source region (mid-Atlantic populations of the US east coast). Overall, our results broaden understanding of the role that colonization events (including recent anthropogenic introductions) have on genetic diversity in non-native organisms by also evaluating less studied groups like parasites.
Humans, like other social animals, learn about threats and safety in the environment through social cues. Yet, the processes that contribute to the efficacy of social safety learning during threat transmission remain unknown. Here, we developed a novel dyadic model of associative threat and extinction learning. In three separate social groups, we manipulated whether safety information during extinction was acquired via direct exposure to the conditioned stimulus (CS) in the presence of another individual (Direct exposure), via observation of other's safety behavior (Vicarious exposure), or via the combination of both (Shared exposure).These groups were contrasted against a fourth group receiving direct CS exposure alone (Asocial exposure). Based on skin conductance responses, we observed that all social groups outperformed asocial learning in inhibiting the recovery of threat, but only Shared exposure abolished threat recovery. These results suggest that social safety learning is optimized by a combination of direct exposure and vicariously transmitted safety signals. This work might help develop exposure therapies used to treat symptoms of threat and anxiety-related disorders to counteract maladaptive fears in humans.
Both experimental and clinical studies have shown that electroacupuncture (EA) administration ameliorates chronic inflammatory pain (CIP). However, the multifaceted mechanism underlying the effects of EA on CIP is poorly understood. In this study, the mRNA transcriptome was used to study various therapeutic targets of EA. Using RNA-sequencing, protein-coding mRNA expression profiles of the L4-L5 dorsal root ganglion (DRG) were examined in the control (CN), complete Freund's adjuvant- (CFA-) induced CIP, and EA-treated CIP groups. A series of bioinformatics analyses was performed; "EA-reversed upregulated genes with CIP" (up-DEGs) and "EA-reversed downregulated genes with CIP" (down-DEGs) were identified. Thereafter, based on up-DEGs and down-DEGs, biological functions and signaling pathways were enriched using gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses. In total, 189 DEGs were identified, including 134 up- and 55 down-DEGs, which were enriched in arachidonic acid metabolism (rno00590), glutamatergic synapse (rno04724), serotonergic synapse (rno04726), FoxO signaling pathway (rno04068), insulin signaling pathway (rno04910), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (rno05014), cholinergic synapse (rno04725), ECM-receptor interaction (rno04512), and choline metabolism in cancer (rno05231). We identified a few GOs, pathways, and genes that could play key roles in the amelioration of CIP by EA. Hence, this study may provide a theoretical basis for CIP amelioration by EA.
A xenograft consisting of equine collagen coated with human fibrinogen and thrombin (TachoSil; Baxter, CA) has recently been introduced in grafting procedures for Peyronie's disease (PD). To describe the results of a multicenter prospective registry on patients with PD undergoing plaque incision or and grafting (PIG) or plaque excision and grafting (PEG) with collagen fleece TachoSil, to evaluate the efficacy and safety of this procedure. A prospective non-controlled multicenter study of patients with PD was performed between May 2016 and March 2018. Patients from 10 centers with stable PD for at least 3 months, difficulties in sexual intercourse, normal erectile function with or without pharmacological treatment, curvature >45°, and/or penile shortening and/or complex deformities were included. All patients underwent PIG/PEG with collagen fleece TachoSil. The main outcome measure of this study were penile curvature correction (intraoperative), penile shortening (intraoperative), erectile function with the 5-item version of the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF-5) and the Erection Hardness Score, subjective patient outcomes with non-validated questionnaires, and complications. A total of 52 patients were enrolled in the study. The mean (SD) preoperative penile curvature was 72.8° (17.0). PIG was the preferred technique (80.8%). Intraoperatively, complete curvature correction was achieved in 92.3%, and no significant penile shortening was recorded in 80.8% of subjects. Subjective penile shortening was reported in 83.3% of patients at 6 months. No objective measurement of penile curvature and length was recorded during follow-up. No statistically significant difference from the baseline was found in IIEF-5 and Erection Hardness Score at 3 or at 6 months, although 16.7% of men experienced a worsening of IIEF-5 scores and 14.3% required de novo phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor use. 6 months after surgery, 78.5% of men were satisfied with intervention. Swelling and ecchymosis/hematoma were the most common perioperative complications (40.4%). 2 cases (3.8%) of wound infection were recorded. At 6 months, 35.7% of patients reported mild penile hypesthesia. Our results confirm the high success rate of grafting with TachoSil, and the surgeon perceived low percentage of penile shortening. This is the first multicentre study on patients with PD undergoing grafting with TachoSil without concomitant placement of penile prosthesis. The main limitations are the short follow-up and the relatively small sample size. Grafting with TachoSil after PIG/PEG in patients with PD is an effective and safe procedure. Among the main advantages of this technique, there are ease of use of the graft and reduced operative time. Fernández-Pascual E, Manfredi C, Torremadé J, et al. Multicenter Prospective Study of Grafting With Collagen Fleece TachoSil in Patients With Peyronie's Disease. J Sex Med 2020;17:2279-2286.
Hydrophilic polyacrylamide gel-based triazine-type condensing reagents, PAG-Trz-Cl, have been developed. PAG-Trz-Cls were synthesized using a chlorotriazine with an acrylamide moiety, acrylamide, and N,N'-methylenebisacrylamide via both precipitation and solution polymerization. Because PAG-Trz-Cls adequately swell in aqueous media, the amidation between polar carboxylic acids and amines afforded the corresponding amides in good yields.
Severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) is the major cause of long-term, even life-long disability and cognitive impairments in young adults. The lack of therapeutic approaches to improve recovery in the chronic phase of severe TBI is a big challenge to the medical research field. Using a single severe TBI model in young adult mice, this study examined the restorative efficacy of two hematopoietic growth factors, stem cell factor (SCF) and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), on brain repair in the chronic phase of TBI. SCF and G-CSF alone or combination (SCF + G-CSF) treatment was administered at 3 months post-TBI. Functional recovery was evaluated by neurobehavioral tests during the period of 21 weeks after treatment. Neuropathology was examined 22 weeks after treatment. We observed that severe TBI caused persistent impairments in spatial learning/memory and somatosensory-motor function, long-term and widespread neuropathology, including dendritic reduction, decrease and overgrowth of axons, over-generated excitatory synapses, and demyelination in the cortex, hippocampus and striatum. SCF, G-CSF, and SCF + G-CSF treatments ameliorated severe TBI-induced widespread neuropathology. SCF + G-CSF treatment showed superior efficacy in improving long-term functional outcome, enhancing neural plasticity, rebalancing neural structure networks disturbed by severe TBI, and promoting remyelination. These novel findings demonstrate the therapeutic potential of SCF and G-CSF in enhancing recovery in the chronic phase of severe TBI .
The antimicrobial susceptibility testing was conducted on 174 single isolates from poultry farms in Serbia and it was determined that seven Salmonella spp. were multidrug resistant. Sixteen serotypes were detected, but only serotype Infantis confirmed reduced susceptibility to colistin. Seven colistin resistant Salmonella Infantis were studied in detail using the WGS approach. Three sequence types were identified corresponding to different epizootiology region. The isolate from the Province of Vojvodina 3842 and isolates from Jagodina (92 and 821) are represented by the sequence type ST413 and ST11, respectively. Four isolates from Kraljevo are ST32, a common S. Infantis sequence type in humans, poultry and food. The fosfomycin resistance gene fosA7 in isolate 3842 and the vgaA gene in isolate 8418/2948 encoding resistance to pleuromutilins were reported for the first time in serovar Infantis. The changes in relative expression of the phoP/Q, mgrB and pmrA/B genes were detected. Single nucleotide polymorphisms of the pmrB gene, including transitions Val164Gly or Val164Met, and Arg92Pro are described. Analyses of quinolone resistance determining region revealed substitutions Ser83Tyr in GyrA protein and Thr57Ser and Ser80Arg in ParC protein. Based on WGS data, there are two major clusters among analyzed Salmonella Infantis isolates from central Serbia.
Biofouling is a major issue in the field of nanomedicine and consists of the spontaneous and unwanted adsorption of biomolecules on engineered surfaces. In a biological context and referring to nanoparticles (NPs) acting as nanomedicines, the adsorption of biomolecules found in blood (mostly proteins) is known as protein corona. On the one hand, the protein corona, as it covers the NPs' surface, can be considered the biological identity of engineered NPs, because the corona is what cells will "see" instead of the underlying NPs. As such, the protein corona will influence the fate, integrity, and performance of NPs in vivo. On the other hand, the physicochemical properties of the engineered NPs, such as their size, shape, charge, or hydrophobicity, will influence the identity of the proteins attracted to their surface. In this context, the design of coatings for NPs and surfaces that avoid biofouling is an active field of research. The gold standard in the field is the use of polyethylene glycol (PEG) molecules, although zwitterions have also proved to be efficient in preventing protein adhesion and fluorinated molecules are emerging as coatings with interesting properties. Hence, in this review, we will focus on recent examples of anti-biofouling coatings in three main areas, that is, PEGylated, zwitterionic, and fluorinated coatings.
Pathogen transmission from a vertebrate animal to a human, also known as zoonotic spillover, represents a global public health burden, which while associated with multiple outbreaks, still remains a poorly understood phenomenon. Coronaviruses, like influenza viruses, circulate in nature in various animal species. Alpha-coronaviruses and beta-coronaviruses can infect mammals and gamma-coronaviruses and delta-coronaviruses tend to infect birds, but some of them can also be transmitted to mammals. Although still preliminary, current data suggest that bats are the most probable initial source of the current 2019 novel CoV (2019nCoV) outbreak, that begun on December 2019 in Wuhan, China, apparently spreading from a "wet market" to multiple cities and provinces in China. This epidemic of 2019nCoV, already reaching more than 6,000 cases to-day (end of January 2020) (>90% in China), will not be the last one linked to zoonotic spillover events.
To investigate the short- and long-term outcomes of patients undergoing pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD) for duodenal neuroendocrine tumors (dNETs) vs pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (pNETs). Patients undergoing PD for dNETs or pNETs between 1997 and 2016 were identified from a multi-institutional database. Overall survival (OS) and recurrence-free survival (RFS) were evaluated. Among 276 patients who underwent PD, 244 (88.4%) patients had a primary pNET, whereas 32 (11.6%) patients had a dNET. Following PD, postoperative morbidity and mortality were comparable. While the total number of lymph nodes examined was similar between the two groups (median, dNETs 15.0 vs pNETs 13.0; P= .648), patients with dNETs had a higher incidence of lymph node metastasis (LNM) (60.0% vs 38.2%; P = .022) and a larger number of metastatic nodes (median, 3.5 vs 2.0; P = .039). No differences in OS or RFS were noted among patients with dNETs vs pNETs in both unadjusted and adjusted analyses. Among patients who recurred after PD, patients with dNETs were more likely to recur early (within 2 years, 100% vs 49.2%; P = .029) and at an extrahepatic site (intrahepatic-only recurrence, 20.0% vs 54.1%; P = 0.142) vs patients with pNETs. Patients with dNETs and pNETs had a similar prognosis following PD. Data on differences in the incidence of LNM, as well as in recurrence time and patterns may help to inform the treatment of these patients.
We revisit, in the key of structural chemistry, one of the most known and important drugs: the aspirin. Although apparently simple, the factors determining the molecular structure and supramolecular association in crystals are not trivial. We addressed the problem from experimental and theoretical sides, considering issues from X-ray measurements and results of first-principle reconstruction of molecule and lattices by ab initio calculations. Some puzzling problems can give headaches to specialists and intrigue the general public. Thus, the reported polymorphism of aspirin is disputed, a so-called form II being alleged as a result of misinterpretation. At the same time, were presented evidences that the structure of common form I can be disrupted by domains where the regular packing is changed to the pattern of form II. The problems appear even at the level of independent molecule: the most stable conformation computed by various techniques of electronic structure differs from those encountered in crystals. Because the energy difference between the related conformational isomers (computed as most stable vs. the experimental structure) is small, about 1 kcal/mol, comprised in the error bars of used methods, the unresting question is whether the modelling is imprecise, or the supramolecular factors are mutating the conformational preferences. By a detective following of the issue, the intermolecular effects were made responsible for the conformation of the molecule in crystal. The presented problems were gathered from literature results, debates, glued with modelling and analysis redone by ourselves, in order to secure the unitary view of the considered prototypic topic.
Acidovorax citrulli, the gram-negative bacteria that causes bacterial fruit blotch (BFB), has been responsible for huge worldwide economic losses in watermelon and melon production since 1980. No commercial cultivar resistant to BFB has been reported. Of the two reported genotypes of A. citrulli, genotype I is the main causal agent of BFB in melon and genotype II causes disease in watermelon. After the isolation of the first bacteriophage against A. citrulli (ACP17), efforts have been made to isolate bacteriophages with wider host ranges by collecting samples from watermelon, pumpkin, and cucumber. The newly isolated phage ACPWH, belonging to the Siphoviridae family, has a head size of 60 ± 5 nm and tail size of 180 ± 5 nm, and can infect 39 out of 42 A. citrulli strains. ACPWH has genome size of 42,499 and GC content of 64.44%. Coating watermelon seeds with bacteriophage ACPWH before soil inoculation with A. citrulli resulted in 96% germination and survival, compared to 13% germination of uncoated control seeds. These results suggest that phage ACPWH may be an effective and low-cost biocontrol agent against BFB.
[This corrects the article doi: 10.1590/0034-7167-2018-0698].
Bacillus cereus sensu lato strains (B. cereus group) are widely distributed in nature and have received interest for decades due to their importance in insect pest management, food production and their positive and negative repercussions in human health. Consideration of practical uses such as virulence, physiology, morphology, or ill-defined features have been applied to describe and classify species of the group. However, current comparative studies have exposed inconsistencies between evolutionary relatedness and biological significance among genomospecies of the B. cereus group. Here, the combined analyses of core-based phylogeny and all versus all Average Nucleotide Identity values based on 2116 strains were conducted to update the genomospecies circumscriptions within B. cereus group. These analyses suggested the existence of 57 genomospecies, 37 of which are novel, thus indicating that the taxonomic identities of more than 39% of the analyzed strains should be revised or updated. In addition, we found that whole-genome in silico analyses were suitable to differentiate genomospecies such as B. anthracis, B. cereus and B. thuringiensis. The prevalence of toxin and virulence factors coding genes in each of the genomospecies of the B. cereus group was also examined, using phylogeny-aware methods at wide-genome scale. Remarkably, Cry and emetic toxins, commonly assumed to be associated with B. thuringiensis and emetic B. paranthracis, respectively, did not show a positive correlation with those genomospecies. On the other hand, anthrax-like toxin and capsule-biosynthesis coding genes were positively correlated with B. anthracis genomospecies, despite not being present in all strains, and with presumably non-pathogenic genomospecies. Hence, despite these features have been so far considered relevant for industrial or medical classification of related species of the B. cereus group, they were inappropriate for their circumscription. In this study, genomospecies of the group were accurately affiliated and representative strains defined, generating a rational framework that will allow comparative analysis in epidemiological or ecological studies. Based on this classification the role of specific markers such as Type VII secretion system, cytolysin, bacillolysin, and siderophores such as petrobactin were pointed out for further analysis.
Less frequent cervical cancer screening in human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccinated birth cohorts could produce considerable savings without increasing cervical cancer incidence and loss of life-years. We report here the baseline findings and interim results of safety and accuracy of infrequent screening among HPV16/18 vaccinated females. The entire 1992-1994 birth-cohorts (30,139 females) were invited to a community-randomized HPV16/18-vaccination trial. A total of 9,482 female trial participants received HPV16/18-vaccination in 2007-2009 at age of 13-15. At age 22, 4,273 (45%) of these females consented to attend a randomized trial on frequent (ages 22/25/28; Arm 1: 2,073 females) vs. infrequent screening (age 28; Arm 2: 2,200 females) in 2014-2017. Females (1,329), who had got HPV16/18 vaccination at age 18 comprised the safety Arm 3. Baseline prevalence and incidence of HPV16/18 and other high-risk HPV types were: 0.5% (53/1,000 follow-up years, 104 ) and 25% (2,530/104 ) in the frequently screened Arm 1; 0.2% (23/104 ) and 24% (2,413/104 ) in the infrequently screened Arm 2; and 3.1% (304/104 ) and 23% (2,284/104 ) in the safety Arm 3. Corresponding prevalence of HSIL/ASC-H and of any abnormal cytological findings were: 0.3 and 4.2% (Arm 1), 0.4 and 5.3% (Arm 2) and 0.3 and 4.7% (Arm 3). Equally rare HSIL/CIN3 findings in the infrequently screened safety Arm A3 (0.4%) and in the frequently screened Arm 1 (0.4%) indicate no safety concerns on infrequent screening despite the up to 10 times higher HPV16/18 baseline prevalence and incidence in the former.
According to the World Health Organization, quality of life is defined as the perception an individual has on his/her position within the cultural context and the system of values in which he/she is contained. This perception is intrinsically related to the objectives, expectations, patterns, and concerns of such an individual. We know that when a member of a family is assailed by an ailment, the quality of life of all of those who surround him/her suffer a strong impact. One of the great concerns of the families regarding the development of a child with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is the lack or impairment of the child's speech. Thus, the objective of this study was to analyze the interference of the communicative means of children with ASD upon the quality of life of their mothers. This was a transversal study. The sample was obtained from 41 mothers of children diagnosed with ASD by a multi-disciplinary team: the mothers were divided into two groups: 20 mothers of non-verbal children-GASD-NV; and 21 mothers of verbal children-GASD. We applied the WHOQOL-Bref questionnaire to score and analyze the quality of life of these mothers. There was no significant difference in the maternal perception related to the domains that reflected the quality of life which we compared between these two groups of mothers. In both groups, we observed high indexes of dissatisfaction. We verified that the quality of life of the mothers of children with ASD was affected regardless of the communicative means used by the child.
Our aim in the present study is to measure neural correlates during spontaneous interactive sentence production. We present a novel approach using the word-by-word technique from improvisational theatre, in which two speakers jointly produce one sentence. This paradigm allows the assessment of behavioural aspects, such as turn-times, and electrophysiological responses, such as event-related-potentials (ERPs). Twenty-five participants constructed a cued but spontaneous four-word German sentence together with a confederate, taking turns for each word of the sentence. In 30% of the trials, the confederate uttered an unexpected gender-marked article. To complete the sentence in a meaningful way, the participant had to detect the violation and retrieve and utter a new fitting response. We found significant increases in response times after unexpected words and - despite allowing unscripted language production and naturally varying speech material - successfully detected significant N400 and P600 ERP effects for the unexpected word. The N400 EEG activity further significantly predicted the response time of the subsequent turn. Our results show that combining behavioural and neuroscientific measures of verbal interactions while retaining sufficient experimental control is possible, and that this combination provides promising insights into the mechanisms of spontaneous spoken dialogue.
It is essential to know the proportion of health care workers (HCW) who are COVID 19 positive, as well as the severity and mortality among them. This systematic review was performed according to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic review and meta-analysis. Databases including PubMed, EMBASE and Web of Science were searched from December-31, 2019 to April-23, 2020. The search was limited to the studies that reported the data on the number of COVID-19 positive healthcare workers, among the COVID-19 positive patients. Case reports, duplicate publications, reviews, and family-based studies were excluded. The methodological quality of studies was assessed by the Appraisal tool for Cross-Sectional Studies (AXIS) tool. In this systematic review and meta-analysis, we pooled eleven studies to investigate the above factors. The overall proportion of HCW who were SARS-CoV-2 positive among all COVID-19 patients was 10.1% (95%CI: 5.3-14.9). This proportion varied according to the country of study i.e. China (7 studies) - 4.2%, 95%CI:2.4-6.0; United States (3 studies) - 17.8%, 95%CI:7.5-28.0; and Italy (1 study) - 9.0%, 95%CI:8.6-9.4. The incidence of severe or critical disease in HCW (9.9%, 95%CI:0.8-18.9) was significantly lower (p < 0.001) than the incidence of severe or critical disease in all COVID-19 positive patients (29.4%, 95%CI:18.6-40.2). Similarly, the mortality among HCW (0.3%, 95%CI:0.2-0.4) was also significantly lower (p < 0.001) as compared to that of all patients (2.3%, 95%CI:2.2-2.4). Health care workers who are COVID-19 positive constituted a significant proportion of all COVID-19 patients; but the severity and mortality were lower among them.
Recurrent hemarthrosis after knee arthroplasty is an uncommon and disabling complication of this frequently performed procedure. Selective endovascular embolization of the geniculate arteries is one of the therapeutic options to manage this complication. The purpose of this study is to analyze the effectiveness of this treatment in patients suffering from recurrent hemarthrosis after knee arthroplasty. We performed a retrospective study of 31 patients (39 embolization procedures) with recurrent hemarthrosis after knee arthroplasty. There were 17 men and 14 women with a median age of 67 years (range 48-90). All patients were referred for geniculate artery embolization between January 2007 and November 2016. Twenty-seven procedures were executed on the right side and 12 on the left side. Total knee arthroplasty was performed on 29 patients, only 2 patients underwent unicompartmental knee arthroplasty. Embolization of the superior geniculate arteries was achieved in all patients. In 12 of 39 procedures (31%), at least 1 of the inferior geniculate arteries could not be catheterized, therefore embolization was achieved through collaterals. Symptomatic improvement was observed in 26 of 31 patients (84%). Discomfort or mild postprocedural pain was observed in most patients, needing only minor pain medication, mostly resolving within 24 hours. Two patients presented with a severe complication: a 48-year-old male patient developed septic arthritis and an 85-year-old hypertensive female patient treated with anticoagulants showed aseptic necrosis of the femoral condyles. Embolization of geniculate arteries is a safe and effective treatment in recurrent hemarthrosis post knee arthroplasty. Clinical improvement was seen in most patients.
Disordered packings of colloidal spheres show angle-independent structural color when the particles are on the scale of the wavelength of visible light. Previous work has shown that the positions of the peaks in the reflectance spectra can be predicted accurately from a single-scattering model that accounts for the effective refractive index of the material. This agreement shows that the main color peak arises from short-range correlations between particles. However, the single-scattering model does not quantitatively reproduce the observed color: the main peak in the reflectance spectrum is much broader and the reflectance at low wavelengths is much larger than predicted by the model. We use a combination of experiment and theory to understand these features. We find that one significant contribution to the breadth of the main peak is light that is scattered, totally internally reflected from the boundary of the sample, and then scattered again. The high reflectance at low wavelengths also results from multiple scattering but can be traced to the increase in the scattering cross section of individual particles with decreasing wavelength. Both of these effects tend to reduce the saturation of the structural color, which limits the use of these materials in applications. We show that while the single-scattering model cannot reproduce the observed saturations, it can be used as a design tool to reduce the amount of multiple scattering and increase the color saturation of materials, even in the absence of absorbing components.
Polymerized human hemoglobins (PolyhHbs) are a promising class of red blood cell substitute for use in transfusion medicine. Unfortunately, the application of the commonly used glutaraldehyde cross-linking chemistry to synthesize these materials results in a complex mixture of PolyhHb molecules with highly varied batch-to-batch consistency. We implemented a controlled method of gas exchange and reagent addition that results in a homogeneous PolyhHb product. A fully coupled tangential flow filtration system was used to purify and concentrate the synthesized PolyhHb molecules. This improved method of PolyhHb production could be used to more precisely control the size and reduce the polydispersity of PolyhHb molecules, with minimal effects on the resulting oxygen-carrying capability. In addition to these factors, we assessed how the hemoglobin scavenging protein haptoglobin (Hp) would interact with PolyhHb molecules of varying sizes and quarternary states. Our results indicated that T-state PolyhHbs may be more efficiently detoxified by Hp compared with R-state PolyhHb and unmodified Hb.
Interdisciplinary multimodal pain therapy (IMPT) programs for chronic back pain are effective and recommended. The patient-centered and biopsychosocial nature of IMPT is grounded in contemporary understanding that chronic pain states reflect heightened sensitization of the nervous system rather than an issue in the tissue. Teaching patients about pain is part of IMPT programs, though a clinical guideline is lacking. This study aims to answer the following question: Does the addition of an evidence-based pain neuroscience education (PNE) lecture for patients, into an IMPT program, produce superior results than the IMPT program itself? A non-randomized, controlled intervention study was performed with 179 back pain patients indicated for IMPT. Intervention group (N=102) received a four-week IMPT program, which contained 4 one-hour sessions PNE. Control group (N=77) received the same IMPT without the additional PNE. Primary outcome was current pain after intervention. Pain knowledge, physical function, depression, anxiety, stress, quality of life and fear-avoidance were analyzed as secondary outcomes. Outcomes were defined as change of the parameter measured before and immediately after the four-week IMPT. For each outcome, linear regression models were used to estimate the raw and adjusted (sex, age and BMI) effect of additional PNE. Despite improvement in all outcomes for both groups during the treatment phase, the implemented PNE did not result in additional pain reduction (regression coefficient for PNE effect on pain level 0.34; 95% CI -6.23-6.97). Between-group differences could only be shown for pain-related knowledge in favor for the intervention group (0.78; 95% CI 0.35-1.20). The additional PNE lecture did not lead to pain reduction beyond the usual IMPT. However, the PNE did increase pain-related knowledge and, therefore, might be helpful in coping with pain after the IMPT program.
Rates of intra-arterial revascularization treatments (IAT) for acute ischemic stroke (AIS) are increasing in the USA. Using a multi-state stroke registry, we studied the trend in IAT use among patients with AIS over a period spanning 11 years. We examined the impact of IAT rates on hospital procedure volumes and patient outcome after stroke. We used data from the Paul Coverdell National Acute Stroke Program (PCNASP) and explored trends in IAT between 2008 and 2018. Patient outcomes were examined by rates of IAT procedures across hospitals. Specifically, outcomes were compared across low-volume (<15 IAT per year), medium-volume (15-30 IAT per year), and high-volume hospitals (>30 IAT per year). Favorable outcome was defined as discharge to home. There were 612 958 patients admitted with AIS to 687 participating hospitals within the PCNASP during this study. Only 2.9% of patients (mean age 68.5 years, 49.3% women) received IAT. The percent of patients with AIS receiving IAT increased from 1% in 2008 to 5.3% in 2018 (p<0.001). The proportion of low-volume hospitals decreased over time (p<0.001), and the proportions of medium-volume (p=0.007) and high-volume hospitals (p<0.001) increased between 2008 and 2018. When compared with medium-volume hospitals, high-volume hospitals had a higher (p<0.0001) and low-volume hospitals had a lower (p<0.0001) percent of patients discharged to home. High-volume hospitals were associated with a higher rate of favorable outcome. With the increased use of IAT among patients with AIS, the proportion of low-volume hospitals performing IAT significantly decreased.
It is well-established that variations of a CGG repeat expansion in the gene FMR1, which encodes the fragile-X mental retardation protein (FMRP), cause the neurocognitive disorder, fragile-X syndrome (FXS). However, multiple observations suggest a general and complex regulatory role of FMRP in processes outside the brain: (1) FMRP is ubiquitously expressed in the body, suggesting it functions in multiple organ systems; (2) patients with FXS can exhibit a physical phenotype that is consistent with an underlying abnormality in connective tissue; (3) different CGG repeat expansion lengths in FMR1 result in different clinical outcomes due to different pathogenic mechanisms; (4) the function of FMRP as an RNA-binding protein suggests it has a general regulatory role. This review details the complex nature of FMRP and the different CGG repeat expansion lengths and the evidence supporting the essential role of the protein in a variety of biological and pathological processes.
Rodent models of human disease can be valuable for understanding the mechanisms of a disease and for identifying novel therapies. However, it is critical that these models be vetted prior to committing resources to developing novel therapeutics. Failure to confirm the model can lead to significant losses in time and resources. One model used for migraine headache is to administer nitroglycerin to rodents. Nitroglycerin is known to produce migraine-like pain in humans and is presumed to do the same in rodents. It is not known, however, if the mechanism for nitroglycerin headaches involves the same pathological processes as migraine. In the absence of known mechanisms, it becomes imperative that the model not only translates into successful clinical trials but also successfully reverse translates by demonstrating efficacy of current therapeutics. In this study female rats were given nitroglycerin and nociception was evaluated in OPADs. Estrous was not monitored. Based on the ED50 of nitroglycerin a dose of 10 mg/kg was used for experiments. Sumatriptan, caffeine, buprenorphine and morphine were administered to evaluate the reverse translatability of the model. We found that nitroglycerin did not produce mechanical allodynia in the face of the rats, which is reported to be a consequence of migraine in humans. Nitroglycerin reduced the animals' participation in the assay. The reduced activity was verified using an assay to measure exploratory behavior. Furthermore, the effects of nitroglycerin were not reversed or prevented by agents that are effective acute therapies for migraine. Two interesting findings from this study, however, were that morphine and nitroglycerin interact to increase the rats' tolerance of mechanical stimuli on their faces, and they work in concert to slow down the central motor pattern generator for licking on the reward bottle. These interactions suggest that nitroglycerin generated nitric oxide and mu opioid receptors interact with the same neuronal circuits in an additive manner. The interaction of nitroglycerin and morphine on sensory and motor circuits deserves additional examination. In conclusion, based on the results of this study the use of nitroglycerin at these doses in naïve female rats is not recommended as a model for migraine headaches.
We argue that the incentive structure of all individual and coordinated measures across countries to contain the corona-pandemic is that of a weakest-link public good game. We discuss a selection of theoretical and experimental key results of weakest-link games and interpret them in the light of the corona-pandemic. First, we highlight that experimental evidence does not support the assumption that coordination can be trivially solved, even among symmetric players. Second, we argue that for asymmetric countries the weakest-link game does not only pose a problem of coordination, but also a problem of cooperation. Third, we show how and under which conditions self-enforcing treaties can foster coordination and cooperation. We account for the possibility that countries make mistakes when choosing their actions. Our discussion shows that North-South cooperation is relevant and likely to be self-enforcing and that regional cooperation, e.g., within the EU, will also be important.
Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) have been implicated in atherothrombosis; however, their potential role as markers of risk is unclear. We investigated whether circulating NETs-related components associated with clinical outcome and hypercoagulability in ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). In this observational cohort study, STEMI patients admitted for PCI (n = 956) were followed for median 4.6 years, recording 190 events (reinfarction, unscheduled revascularization, stroke, heart failure hospitalization, or death). Serum drawn median 18 hours post-PCI was used to quantify double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) and the more specific NETs markers myeloperoxidase-DNA and citrullinated histone 3. Levels of the NETs markers did not differ significantly between groups with/without a primary composite endpoint. However, patients who died (n = 76) had higher dsDNA compared to survivors (p < 0.001). Above-median dsDNA was associated with an increased number of deaths (54 vs. 22, p < 0.001). dsDNA in the upper quartiles (Q) was associated with increased mortality (Q3 vs. Q1 + 2 adjusted HR: 1.89 [95% CI 1.03 to 3.49], p = 0.041 and Q4 vs. Q1 + 2 adjusted HR: 2.28 [95% CI 1.19 to 4.36], p = 0.013). dsDNA was weakly correlated with D-dimer (rs = 0.17, p < 0.001). dsDNA levels associated with increased all-cause mortality, yet weakly with hypercoagulability in STEMI patients. The prognostic significance of potentially NETs-related markers requires further exploration.
With evolving diagnostic criteria and the advent of new oral and parenteral therapies for MS, most current diagnostic and treatment algorithms need revision and updating. The diagnosis of MS relies on incorporating clinical and paraclinical findings to prove dissemination in space and in time, and exclude alternative diseases that can explain the findings at hand. The differential diagnostic workup should be guided by clinical and laboratory red flags to avoid unnecessary tests. Appropriate selection of multiple sclerosis (MS) therapies is critical to maximize patient benefit. The current guidelines review the scientific evidence supporting treatment of acute relapses, radiologically isolated syndrome, clinically isolated syndrome, relapsing remitting MS, and progressive MS. The purpose of these guidelines is to provide practical recommendations and algorithms for the diagnosis and treatment of MS based on current scientific evidence and clinical experience.
Bicuspid aortic valve (BAV) is the most common human congenital cardiac malformation. Although the etiology is unknown for most patients, formation of the 2 main BAV anatomic types (A and B) has been shown to rely on distinct morphogenetic mechanisms. Animal models of BAV include 2 spontaneous hamster strains and 27 genetically modified mouse strains. To assess the value of these models for extrapolation to humans, we examined the aortic valve anatomy of 4340 hamsters and 1823 mice from 8 and 7 unmodified strains, respectively. In addition, we reviewed the literature describing BAV in nonhuman mammals. The incidences of BAV types A and B were 2.3% and 0.03% in control hamsters and 0% and 0.3% in control mice, respectively. Hamsters from the spontaneous model had BAV type A only, whereas mice from 2 of 27 genetically modified strains had BAV type A, 23 of 27 had BAV type B, and 2 of 27 had both BAV types. In both species, BAV incidence was dependent on genetic background. Unlike mice, hamsters had a wide spectrum of aortic valve morphologies. We showed interspecific differences in the occurrence of BAV between humans, hamsters, and mice that should be considered when studying aortic valve disease using animal models. Our results suggest that genetic modifiers play a significant role in both the morphology and incidence of BAV. We propose that mutations causing anomalies in specific cardiac morphogenetic processes or cell lineages may lead to BAV types A, B, or both, depending on additional genetic, environmental, and epigenetic factors.
Nitrification is the microbial-mediated transformation of ammonium (NH4+) into nitrate (NO3-). Many plant species depend on the availability of NO3- as the main source of nitrogen (N). On the other hand, because NO3- is highly mobile in the soil profile, its excess concentration can cause environmental pollution. Nitrification can be estimated at the process level, but with the development of molecular techniques it is also possible to estimate the abundance of nitrifying bacteria in the soil. Hence, in this chapter we describe the procedure for detection and quantification of nitrifying bacteria in soil samples using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
Thumb ulnar collateral ligament (UCL) tears are common in competitive athletes. These tears often occur as a result of a radially directed force on an extended thumb. To date, no literature exists on the use of suture tape augmentation for repair of the thumb UCL in a competitive athlete cohort. Using suture tape augmentation for the thumb UCL will allow for a safe and expedient return to play in competitive athletes. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. A retrospective chart review was completed to identify all patients who underwent operative primary thumb UCL repair between 2014 and 2018. All procedures were performed at a single institution by the senior author. Inclusion criteria were acute complete tears of the thumb metacarpophalangeal joint UCL, treated with primary repair via suture tape augmentation in competitive high school, collegiate, or professional athletes. Exclusion criteria included recreational athletes, patients who underwent reconstruction (rather than repair), and patients with insufficient follow-up to establish return to play. Charts of patients identified through the retrospective review were further evaluated to determine patient- and injury-related variables. Return to play was defined as return to game competition and stratified as to whether this was at the same level of competition or any level of competition. A total of 18 thumbs in 17 competitive high school, collegiate, and professional athletes were included in this study. One of the professional basketball players sustained injury to both thumbs approximately 10 months apart. The study group comprised 4 collegiate baseball players, 6 professional baseball players, 3 professional basketball players, 1 professional hockey player, 1 amateur-level hockey player, 1 high school basketball player, and 1 high school volleyball player. Mean follow-up was 27.9 months, and no complications were noted. Athletes who sustained an in-season injury (n = 13; 72.2%) returned to play at any level at a mean ± SD of 30.9 ± 10.1 days and at the same level at 36.3 ± 11.2 days. Athletes who sustained an out-of-season injury (n = 5; 27.8%) returned to play at any level at 101.4 ± 86.6 days and at the same level at 114.6 ± 87.0 days. The findings presented here offer evidence for return to play in competitive high school, collegiate, and professional athletes with a thumb UCL tear treated with repair and suture tape augmentation. All athletes returned to the same level of play. Those attempting to return in-season returned to the same level of play at a mean of just under 5 weeks. Augmenting the repair with anchored suture may prevent prolonged immobilization, expedite thumb motion, and improve postoperative recovery.
Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) establishes either a latent (non-productive) or lytic (productive) infection depending upon cell type, cytokine milieu and the differentiation status of the infected cell. Undifferentiated cells, such as precursor cells of the myeloid lineage, support a latent infection whereas terminally differentiated cells, such as monocytes or dendritic cells are an environment conducive to reactivation and support a lytic infection. The mechanisms which regulate HCMV in either a latent or lytic infection have been the focus of intense investigation with a view to developing novel treatments for HCMV-associated disease which can have a heavy clinical burden after reactivation or primary infection in, especially, the immune compromised. To this end, a number of studies have been carried out in an unbiased manner to address global changes occurring within the latently infected cell to address the molecular changes associated with HCMV latency. In this review, we will concentrate on the proteomic analyses which have been carried out in undifferentiated myeloid cells which either stably express specific viral latency associated genes in isolation or on cells which have been latently infected with virus.
Although iron disequilibrium has been observed frequently in high-fat diet (HFD) related insulin resistance (IR) the exact mechanism still obscure. Herein, we explore the potential mechanism, focusing on hepatic ferritinophagy flow. Male C57/6J mice were administered with HFD or low-fat diet (LFD) for 10 weeks, and HepG2 cells were treated with palmitate (PA, 200 mM) for 24 h. HFD led to abnormal hepatic steatosis and decline p-AKT and p-GSK3β by 67.1% and 66.3%, respectively. Also, not only decreased iron level but increased endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS) were observed in the liver of HFD mice and that both them impaired glucose uptake and reduced the expression of p-AKT. However, ferric ammonium citrate (FAC) supplementation improved hepatic IR, as well as ERS. What's more, HFD/PA depleted the labile iron pool (LIP), accumulated p62 and disturbed the expression of nuclear receptor coactivator 4 (NCOA4) and ferritin. While NCOA4 overexpression or rapamycin improved the ERS and impaired glucose uptake in PA incubated HepG2 cells, which was abolished by NCOA4 knockdown or bafilomycin A1. Taken together, these findings suggest that HFD could restrict ferritinophagy flux and interfere with iron metabolism, which resulting in hepatic IR via ERS.
This review focuses on the association between vascular calcification and arterial stiffness, highlighting the important genetic factors, systemic and local microenvironmental signals, and underlying signaling pathways and molecular regulators of vascular calcification. Elevated oxidative stress appears to be a common procalcification factor that induces osteogenic differentiation and calcification of vascular cells in a variety of disease conditions such as atherosclerosis, diabetes mellitus, and chronic kidney disease. Thus, the role of oxidative stress and oxidative stress-regulated signals in vascular smooth muscle cells and their contributions to vascular calcification are highlighted. In relation to diabetes mellitus, the regulation of both hyperglycemia and increased protein glycosylation, by AGEs (advanced glycation end products) and O-linked β-N-acetylglucosamine modification, and its role in enhancing intracellular pathophysiological signaling that promotes osteogenic differentiation and calcification of vascular smooth muscle cells are discussed. In the context of chronic kidney disease, this review details the role of calcium and phosphate homeostasis, parathyroid hormone, and specific calcification inhibitors in regulating vascular calcification. In addition, the impact of the systemic and microenvironmental factors on respective intrinsic signaling pathways that promote osteogenic differentiation and calcification of vascular smooth muscle cells and osteoblasts are compared and contrasted, aiming to dissect the commonalities and distinctions that underlie the paradoxical vascular-bone mineralization disorders in aging and diseases.
Modelling of protein structures based on backbone chemical shifts, using programs such as CS-ROSETTA, is becoming increasingly popular, especially for systems where few restraints are available or where homologous structures are already known. While the reliability of CS-ROSETTA calculations can be improved by incorporation of some additional backbone NMR data such as those afforded by residual dipolar couplings or minimal NOE data sets involving backbone amide protons, the sidechain conformations are largely modelled by statistical energy terms. Here, we present a simple method based on methyl residual dipolar couplings that can be used to determine the rotameric state of the threefold symmetry axis of methyl groups that occupy a single rotamer, determine rotameric distributions, and identify regions of high flexibility. The method is demonstrated for methyl side chains of a deletion variant of the human chaperone DNAJB6b.
Conventional synthesis of colloidal molecules (CMs) mainly depends on particle-based self-assembly of patchy building blocks. However, direct access to CMs by the self-assembly of isotropic colloidal subunits remains challenging. Here, we report the mass production of AB n -type CMs by polymerization-induced particle-assembly (PIPA), using a linear ABC triblock terpolymer system. Starting from diblock copolymer spheres, the association of spheres takes place in situ during the polymerization of the third block. The third blocks aggregate into attractive domains, which connect spheres into CMs. The stability of CMs is ensured, as long as the conversions are limited to ca. 50%, and the pH is low. The valence of AB n -type CMs (n = 2-6) is determined by the volume ratio of the polymer blocks. By tuning the volume ratio, 78.5% linear AB2-type CMs are yielded. We demonstrate that polymerization-induced particle-assembly is successful for the scalable fabrication of AB n -type CMs (50 g L-1), and can be easily extended to vastly different triblock terpolymers, for a wide range of applications.
Corticospinal pathway and its function are essential in motor control and motor rehabilitation. Multiple sclerosis (MS) causes damage to the brain and descending connections, and often diminishes corticospinal function. In people with MS, neural plasticity is available, although it does not necessarily remain stable over the course of disease progress. Thus, inducing plasticity to the corticospinal pathway so as to improve its function may lead to motor control improvements, which impact one's mobility, health, and wellness. In order to harness plasticity in people with MS, over the past two decades, non-invasive brain stimulation techniques have been examined for addressing common symptoms, such as cognitive deficits, fatigue, and spasticity. While these methods appear promising, when it comes to motor rehabilitation, just inducing plasticity or having a capacity for it does not guarantee generation of better motor functions. Targeting plasticity to a key pathway, such as the corticospinal pathway, could change what limits one's motor control and improve function. One of such neural training methods is operant conditioning of the motor-evoked potential that aims to train the behavior of the corticospinal-motoneuron pathway. Through up-conditioning training, the person learns to produce the rewarded neuronal behavior/state of increased corticospinal excitability, and through iterative training, the rewarded behavior/state becomes one's habitual, daily motor behavior. This minireview introduces operant conditioning approach for people with MS. Guiding beneficial CNS plasticity on top of continuous disease progress may help to prolong the duration of maintained motor function and quality of life in people living with MS.
BACKGROUND Acute hemorrhagic necrotizing encephalitis (AHNE) is a rare manifestation of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection. AHNE usually involves the subcortical white matter but not the cortical grey matter. This study describes the disruptive effects of AHNE associated with SARS-CoV-2 on cognitive function in a previously healthy and sound middle-aged woman resulting from alterations in cortical areas involved in the cognitive network. CASE REPORT A 44-year-old previously healthy woman with a history of inter-state travel developed a flu-like illness, followed by acute, steadily progressive cognitive impairment. She was admitted in a comatose state after a first tonic-clonic seizure. Blood tests were non-informative. Cerebral magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was indicative of AHNE. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis showed mild lymphocytosis with normal protein and normal glucose but an elevated IgG index. After testing positive for SARS-CoV-2, she was administered steroids. Treatment was ineffective, and the patient died. CONCLUSIONS SARS-CoV-2 is a potential central nervous system (CNS) pathogen, which may manifest as AHNE. These patients may present with generalized tonic-clonic seizures and frontal dysexecutive syndrome, with cognitive impairment being the presenting feature of neuro-coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19). The patient described in this report is unique for acute-onset and isolated cognitive impairments due to SARS-CoV-2 infection in the absence of clinical or radiological respiratory manifestations. These findings may help in the early detection and diagnosis of neuro-COVID-19, especially among clinicians and neurologists working in areas of endemic SARS-CoV-2 infection.
 We recently developed a new subcortical mapping technique based on the concept of stimulating the tissue at the site of and synchronously with resection. Our hypothesis was that instead of performing resection and mapping sequentially, a synchronized resection and mapping could potentially improve deficit rates.  We report our 5-year series of patients who prospectively underwent tumor surgery adjacent to the corticospinal tract (CST) (defined as < 1 cm using diffusion tension imaging and fiber tracking) with simultaneous subcortical short train cathodal monopolar mapping, equipped with a new acoustic motor evoked potential (MEP) alarm. Continuous (temporal coverage) and dynamic (spatial coverage) mapping was realized technically by integrating the mapping probe at the tip of a new suction device. Motor function was assessed using the Medical Research Council scale (from M1 to M5) 1 day after surgery, at discharge, and at 3 months.  Technically, the method was successful in all 182 cases. The lowest individual motor thresholds reached during resection were > 10 mA, n = 56; 6-10 mA, n = 31; 4-5 mA, n = 37; and 1-3 mA, n = 58. At 3 months, six patients (3%) had a persisting postoperative motor deficit that was caused by direct mechanical injury in three of these patients (1.7%).  Continuous dynamic mapping was found to be a feasible and ergonomic technique for localizing the exact site of the CST and distance to the motor fibers. This new technique may improve the safety of motor eloquent tumor surgery.
Vibration therapy has been widely used and published in alleviating muscle fatigue. However, reports on applying vibration therapy based on the holisitic theory of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) remains limited. This study is to evaluate the immediate effect of vibration therapy on exercise-induced muscle fatigue. For this retrospective parallel controlled study, all data were from a previously approved and completed clinical trial. Participants (n=40) in the clinical trial included local Greco-Roman wrestling and Judo athletes in south China. The participants were equally randomly divided into the intervention group (n=20) and control group (n=20). The intervention group received a seven-week vibration intervention-based TCM holistic theory combined with conventional therapy, such as stretching, massage, and flapping, while the control group only received the conventional therapy. Surface electromyography (sEMG) of the lumbar segment of erector spinae was measured for each participant pre- and postintervention, and the two-point discrimination thresholds of the data were differentiated and compared with panel data analysis. For the control group, the pre- and postintervention sEMG measure showed no significant difference (p=0.333), whereas significant difference (p=0.004) was observed for the intervention group. Further, the pre- and postintervention two-point discrimination test also showed a significant difference (p=0.016) for the intervention group. The application of vibration therapy based on TCM holistic theory may have an immediate effect in reducing sport-induced muscle fatigue from intensive training. Future larger sample size and robust designed clinical trial is warranted to evaluate the long-term effect of the intervention.
Capsule-forming extracellular polysaccharides are crucial for bacterial host colonization, invasion, immune evasion, and ultimately pathogenicity. Due to warming ocean waters and human encroachment of coastal ecosystems, Vibrio parahaemolyticus has emerged as a globally important foodborne enteropathogen implicated in acute gastroenteritis, wound infections, and septic shock. Conventionally, the antigenic properties of lipopolysaccharide (LPS, O antigen) and capsular polysaccharide (CPS, K antigen) have provided a basis for serotyping V. parahaemolyticus, whereas disclosure of genetic elements encoding 13 O-serogroups have allowed molecular serotyping methods to be developed. However, the genetic structure of CPS loci for 71 K-serogroups has remained unidentified, limiting progress in understanding its roles in V. parahaemolyticus pathophysiology. In this study, we identified and characterized the genetic structure and their evolutionary relationship of CPS loci of 40 K-serogroups through whole genome sequencing of 443 V. parahaemolyticus strains. We found a distinct pattern of CPS gene cluster across different K-serogroups and expanded its new 3'-border by identifying glpX as a key gene conserved across all K-serogroups. A total of 217 genes involved in CPS biosynthesis were annotated. Functional contents and genetic structure of the 40 K-serogroups were analyzed. Based on inferences from species trees and gene trees, we proposed an evolution model of the CPS gene clusters of 40 K-serogroups. Horizontal gene transfer by recombination from other Vibrio species, gene duplication is likely to play instrumental roles in the evolution of CPS in V. parahaemolyticus. This is the first time, to the best of our knowledge, that a large scale of CPS gene clusters of different K-serogroups in V. parahaemolyticus have been identified and characterized in evolutionary contexts. This work should help advance understanding on the variation of CPS in V. parahaemolyticus and provide a framework for developing diagnostically relevant serotyping methods.
Editor's Note: For those whose response to COVID-19 includes exploring beyond vaccines, conventional pharmaceuticals, and the watchful or healthy waiting until such tools might arrive, interest in cannabinoids has been high - and controversial. It has already stimulated one journal, the Liebert Cannabis and Cannabinoid Research, to issue a call for papers on COVID-19. The unique place of cannabis in the culture seems to always mark the herb with an exponential asterisk whenever basketed with the other natural health strategies that are both widely used, and as broadly derided. In this invited commentary, JACM Editorial Board member Michelle Sexton, ND starts by describing the multiple immune modulating effects associated with the herb. The University of California San Diego Assistant Adjunct Professor in Anesthesiology then asks: "Given these effects, can phytocannabinoids be either helpful, or harmful for immune competency, in the context of the current COVID-19 pandemic?" A skilled edge-walker, Sexton lets the research fall where it may in wending a path through this evidentiary maze. -John Weeks, Editor-in-Chief, JACM.
To evaluate the effects of air pollutants on hospitalizations of elderly people for congestive heart failure (CHF) in the city of São Paulo, stratified by sex, exploring lag structures, from 2000 to 2013. Ecological time series study using information on hospitalization of elderly patients for CHF (ICD-10th: I50) obtained from DATASUS for the city of São Paulo. Information on O3, PM10, NO2, SO2, CO, temperature and humidity was obtained from CETESB. Descriptive analyses, Pearson correlation, and generalized linear Poisson regression model were applied to estimate the effects of pollutants. The interquartile variations of O3 (52.45 μg/m3), PM10 (24.28 μg/m3), NO2 (7.63 μg/m3), SO2 (50.22 μg/m3), and CO (1.28 ppm) were associated with increased hospitalizations for CHF. Air pollutants continue to be a factor that contributes to the increase in the number of hospitalizations due to CHF.
Semiarid ecosystems are threatened by global warming due to longer dehydration times and increasing soil degradation. Mounting evidence indicates that, given the current trends, drylands are likely to expand and possibly experience catastrophic shifts from vegetated to desert states. Here, we explore a recent suggestion based on the concept of ecosystem terraformation, where a synthetic organism is used to counterbalance some of the nonlinear effects causing the presence of such tipping points. Using an explicit spatial model incorporating facilitation and considering a simplification of states found in semiarid ecosystems including vegetation, fertile and desert soil, we investigate how engineered microorganisms can shape the fate of these ecosystems. Specifically, two different, but complementary, terraformation strategies are proposed: Cooperation-based: C-terraformation; and Dispersion-based: D-terraformation. The first strategy involves the use of soil synthetic microorganisms to introduce cooperative loops (facilitation) with the vegetation. The second one involves the introduction of engineered microorganisms improving their dispersal capacity, thus facilitating the transition from desert to fertile soil. We show that small modifications enhancing cooperative loops can effectively modify the aridity level of the critical transition found at increasing soil degradation rates, also identifying a stronger protection against soil degradation by using the D-terraformation strategy. The same results are found in a mean-field model providing insights into the transitions and dynamics tied to these terraformation strategies. The potential consequences and extensions of these models are discussed.
Currently used platforms for surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) sensors generally employ metallic nanostructures for enrichment of the plasmonic hotspots in order to provide higher Raman signals, but this procedure is still considered challenging for analyte-surface affinity. This study reports a UV irradiation-induced SERS enhancement that amplifies the interactions between the analytes and metallic surfaces. The UV light can play critical roles in the surface cleaning to improve the SERS signal by removing the impurities from the surfaces and the formation of the negatively charged adsorbed oxygen species on the Au surfaces to enhance the analyte-surface affinity. To evaluate this scenario, we prepared randomly distributed Au nanostructures via thermal annealing with a sputtered Au thin film. The UV light of central wavelength 254 nm was then irradiated on the Au nanostructures for 60 min. The SERS efficiency of the Au nanostructures was subsequently evaluated using rhodamine 6G molecules as the representative Raman probe material. The Raman signal of the Au nanostructures after UV treatment was enhanced by up to approximately 68.7% compared to that of those that did not receive the UV treatment. We expect that the proposed method has the potential to be applied to SERS enhancement with various plasmonic platforms.
The neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCLs), also known as Batten disease, are a group of rare monogenic neurodegenerative diseases predominantly affecting children. All NCLs are lethal and incurable and only one has an approved treatment available. To date, 13 NCL subtypes (CLN1-8, CLN10-14) have been identified, based on the particular disease-causing defective gene. The exact functions of NCL proteins and the pathological mechanisms underlying the diseases are still unclear. However, gene therapy has emerged as an attractive therapeutic strategy for this group of conditions. Here we provide a short review discussing updates on the current gene therapy studies for the NCLs.
We aimed at evaluating the long-term effects of l-cysteine oral supplementation to basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) eye-drops on corneal re-epithelization and transparency in myopic patients subjected to photorefractive keratectomy (PRK). Forty patients subjected to bilateral PRK for myopia were enrolled and randomly divided into two groups receiving an additional therapy together with the standard postoperative treatment consisting in local tobramycin 0.3%, dexamethasone 0.1%, diclofenac 0.1%, and 0.2% hyaluronate. Group 1 included 20 patients (11 males and 9 females; 34.09 ± 8 years of age) receiving only bFGF eye-drops (10 μg/10 μL) four times a day for 7 days starting from the day of surgery; Group 2 included 20 patients (12 males and 8 females; 37.35 ± 11.5 years of age) who were postoperatively administered with topical basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF; 10 μg/10 μL) four times a day for 7 days plus oral l-cysteine supplementation (500 mg/capsule) once a day for 15 days, starting 7 days before PRK. Patients were followed-up for 12 months. Clinical ophthalmologic parameters were recorded for all the 80 examined eyes. The corneal transparency was evaluated in vivo by slit lamp and confocal microscopy. The data showed that: (a) the corneal haze occurred in a smaller percentage of the patients who were postoperatively administered with topical bFGF plus oral l-cysteine supplementation (Group 2) compared to patients who received only bFGF (Group 1); (b) at 6 months of follow-up, the stromal mean image brightness of the patients belonging to Group 2 was significantly lower than that of the Group 1 (p < 0.03), and, interestingly, the difference was even more evident at 12 month from the treatment (p < 0.001). Moreover, the final mean of the spherical equivalent refraction was -0.06 ± 0.2 D in Group 1 and -0.08 ± 0.3 D in Group 2, whereas the final uncorrected distance visual acuity (UDVA) was equal or superior to 20/25 in 100% of eyes in both Group 1 and 2. Post refractive patients can benefit from the administration of l-cysteine before the surgery and in association with bFGF in the early postoperative period, showing a faster corneal re-epithelization able to prevent corneal haze in the long-term recovery.
