Glioblastomas (GBMs) are characterized by four subtypes, proneural (PN), neural, classical, and mesenchymal (MES) GBMs, and they all have distinct activated signaling pathways. Among the subtypes, PN and MES GBMs show mutually exclusive genetic signatures, and the MES phenotype is, in general, believed to be associated with more aggressive features of GBM: tumor recurrence and drug resistance. Therefore, targeting MES GBMs would improve the overall prognosis of patients with fatal tumors. In this study, we propose peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) as a potential diagnostic and prognostic biomarker as well as therapeutic target for MES GBM; we used multiple approaches to assess PPARγ, including biostatistics analysis and assessment of preclinical studies. First, we found that PPARγ was exclusively expressed in MES glioblastoma stem cells (GSCs), and ligand activation of endogenous PPARγ suppressed cell growth and stemness in MES GSCs. Further in vivo studies involving orthotopic and heterotopic xenograft mouse models confirmed the therapeutic efficacy of targeting PPARγ; compared to control mice, those that received ligand treatment exhibited longer survival as well as decreased tumor burden. Mechanistically, PPARγ activation suppressed proneural-mesenchymal transition (PMT) by inhibiting the STAT3 signaling pathway. Biostatistical analysis using The Cancer Genomics Atlas (TCGA, n = 206) and REMBRANDT (n = 329) revealed that PPARγ upregulation is linked to poor overall survival and disease-free survival of GBM patients. Analysis was performed on prospective (n = 2) and retrospective (n = 6) GBM patient tissues, and we finally confirmed that PPARγ expression was distinctly upregulated in MES GBM. Collectively, this study provides insight into PPARγ as a potential therapeutic target for patients with MES GBM.
Using a life course theory perspective, this qualitative descriptive study explored how Hispanic adolescent fathers view fatherhood, and how their perception of parenthood is shaped by critical life events. Hispanics are one of the largest ethnic groups, as well as one of the populations that is overrepresented in adolescent births in the United States. Despite this, Hispanic adolescent fathers are understudied and underrepresented in research. Participants were recruited from a community-based fatherhood program. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with Hispanic fathers, ages 16 years to 23 years. Participants conveyed their grief over fragmented family relationships and limited interactions with their own father. Some lived in hostile environments where they frequently experienced racism, discrimination, and neighborhood violence. The cumulative impact of these events resulted in substance use and emotional distress. Becoming a father was a sentinel event that helped resolve negative perceptions about fatherhood. Fatherhood also motivated participants towards a more productive, meaningful life.
Ceramides are sphingolipids that modulate a variety of cellular processes via 2 major mechanisms: functioning as second messengers and regulating membrane biophysical properties, particularly lipid rafts, important signaling platforms. Altered sphingolipid levels have been implicated in many cardiovascular diseases, including hypertension, atherosclerosis, and diabetes mellitus-related conditions; however, molecular mechanisms by which ceramides impact endothelial functions remain poorly understood. In this regard, we generated mice defective of endothelial sphingolipid de novo biosynthesis by deleting the Sptlc2 (long chain subunit 2 of serine palmitoyltransferase)-the first enzyme of the pathway. Our study demonstrated that endothelial sphingolipid de novo production is necessary to regulate (1) signal transduction in response to NO agonists and, mainly via ceramides, (2) resting eNOS (endothelial NO synthase) phosphorylation, and (3) blood pressure homeostasis. Specifically, our findings suggest a prevailing role of C16:0-Cer in preserving vasodilation induced by tyrosine kinase and GPCRs (G-protein coupled receptors), except for Gq-coupled receptors, while C24:0- and C24:1-Cer control flow-induced vasodilation. Replenishing C16:0-Cer in vitro and in vivo reinstates endothelial cell signaling and vascular tone regulation. This study reveals an important role of locally produced ceramides, particularly C16:0-, C24:0-, and C24:1-Cer in vascular and blood pressure homeostasis, and establishes the endothelium as a key source of plasma ceramides. Clinically, specific plasma ceramides ratios are independent predictors of major cardiovascular events. Our data also suggest that plasma ceramides might be indicative of the diseased state of the endothelium.
Tumour cells adapt to nutrient deprivation in vivo, yet strategies targeting the nutrient poor microenvironment remain unexplored. In melanoma, tumour cells often experience low glutamine levels, which promote cell dedifferentiation. Here, we show that dietary glutamine supplementation significantly inhibits melanoma tumour growth, prolongs survival in a transgenic melanoma mouse model, and increases sensitivity to a BRAF inhibitor. Metabolomic analysis reveals that dietary uptake of glutamine effectively increases the concentration of glutamine in tumours and its downstream metabolite, αKG, without increasing biosynthetic intermediates necessary for cell proliferation. Mechanistically, we find that glutamine supplementation uniformly alters the transcriptome in tumours. Our data further demonstrate that increase in intra-tumoural αKG concentration drives hypomethylation of H3K4me3, thereby suppressing epigenetically-activated oncogenic pathways in melanoma. Therefore, our findings provide evidence that glutamine supplementation can serve as a potential dietary intervention to block melanoma tumour growth and sensitize tumours to targeted therapy via epigenetic reprogramming.
Plasmodesmata pores control the entry and exit of molecules at cell-to-cell boundaries. Hundreds of pores perforate the plant cell wall, connecting cells together and establishing direct cytosolic and membrane continuity. This ability to connect cells in such a way is a hallmark of plant physiology and is thought to have allowed sessile multicellularity in Plantae kingdom. Indeed, plasmodesmata-mediated cell-to-cell signalling is fundamental to many plant-related processes. In fact, there are so many facets of plant biology under the control of plasmodesmata that it is hard to conceive how such tiny structures can do so much. While they provide 'open doors' between cells, they also need to guarantee cellular identities and territories by selectively transporting molecules. Although plasmodesmata operating mode remains difficult to grasp, little by little plant scientists are divulging their secrets. In this review, we highlight novel functions of cell-to-cell signalling and share recent insights into how plasmodesmata structural and molecular signatures confer functional specificity and plasticity to these unique cellular machines.
Compared with the current standard of implanting bone anabolics for fracture repair, bone fracture-targeted anabolics would be more effective, less invasive, and less toxic and would allow for control over what phase of fracture healing is being affected. We therefore sought to identify the optimal bone-targeting molecule to allow for systemic administration of therapeutics to bone fractures. We found that many bone-targeting molecules exist, but most have been developed for the treatment of bone cancers, osteomyelitis, or osteoporosis. There are a few examples of bone-targeting ligands that have been developed for bone fractures that are selective for the bone fracture over the body and skeleton. Acidic oligopeptides have the ideal half-life, toxicity profile, and selectivity for a bone fracture-targeting ligand and are the most developed and promising of these bone fracture-targeting ligands. However, many other promising ligands have been developed that could be used for bone fractures.
Inorganic phosphate (Pi) is a fundamental and essential element for nucleotide biosynthesis, energy supply, and cellular signaling in living organisms. Human phosphate transporter (hPiT) dysfunction causes numerous diseases, but the molecular mechanism underlying transporters remains elusive. We report the structure of the sodium-dependent phosphate transporter from Thermotoga maritima (TmPiT) in complex with sodium and phosphate (TmPiT-Na/Pi) at 2.3-angstrom resolution. We reveal that one phosphate and two sodium ions (Pi-2Na) are located at the core of TmPiT and that the third sodium ion (Nafore) is located near the inner membrane boundary. We propose an elevator-like mechanism for sodium and phosphate transport by TmPiT, with the TmPiT-Na/Pi complex adopting an inward occluded conformation. We found that disease-related hPiT variants carry mutations in the corresponding sodium- and phosphate-binding residues identified in TmPiT. Our three-dimensional structure of TmPiT provides a framework for understanding PiT dysfunction and for future structure-based drug design.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is one of the most common cancers in males and particularly tends to metastasize to bone. Currently, metastatic bone disease is incurable, and new therapies need to be developed. Our study aims to determine the role of miR-127-3p in PCa metastasis to bone. The results demonstrate that miR-127-3p is markedly reduced in bone metastasis-positive PCa tissues relative to that in bone metastasis-negative PCa tissues. Furthermore, overexpressing miR-127-3p inhibits PCa cell invasion and migration in vitro by targeting the proteasome β-subunit PSMB5. Moreover, CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF) transcriptionally inhibits miR-127-3p by interacting with the miR-127-3p promoter. Collectively, this study uncovers a novel mechanism of the CTCF/miR-127-3p/PSMB5 axis in promoting PCa bone metastasis, indicating that miR-127-3p could function as a promising therapeutic target against bone metastasis.
This paper reviews the literature on evaluations of brief intervention training programs for health professionals which address one or more lifestyle factors of chronic disease to identify factors impacting on development and implementation of programs. A search was conducted of the literature evaluating brief intervention training programs from 2000-2019 in the databases: Medline, CINAHL, Psychinfo, Academic Premier, Science Direct, Ovid (Including EMBASE and Healthstar), Web of Science and Informit. The content analysis and data extraction were aligned to the domains in the Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research (CFIR) to assist in the narrative synthesis. The search identified eight evaluations of programs targeting multiple risk factors, and 17 targeting single risk factors. The behavioural risk factor most commonly addressed was smoking, followed by alcohol and drug use. Programs consisted of face-to-face workshops and/or online or distance learning methods. Facilitators included availability of sustainable funding, adapting the program to suit the organisation's structural characteristics and adoption of the intervention into routine client care. For Indigenous programs, the use of culturally appropriate images and language, consultation with Indigenous communities, and development of resources specific to the communities targeted were important considerations.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is still the leading cause of cancer death worldwide. Despite the introduction of tyrosine kinase inhibitors and immunotherapeutic approaches, there is still an urgent need for novel strategies to improve patient survival. ROS1, a tyrosine kinase receptor endowed with oncoantigen features, is activated by chromosomal rearrangement or overexpression in NSCLC and in several tumor histotypes. In this work, we have exploited transgenic mice harboring the activated K-Ras oncogene (K-RasG12D) that spontaneously develop metastatic NSCLC as a preclinical model to test the efficacy of ROS1 immune targeting. Indeed, qPCR and immunohistochemical analyses revealed ROS1 overexpression in the autochthonous primary tumors and extrathoracic metastases developed by K-RasG12D mice and in a derived transplantable cell line. As proof of concept, we have evaluated the effects of the intramuscular electroporation (electrovaccination) of plasmids coding for mouse- and human-ROS1 on the progression of these NSCLC models. A significant increase in survival was observed in ROS1-electrovaccinated mice challenged with the transplantable cell line. It is worth noting that tumors were completely rejected, and immune memory was achieved, albeit only in a few mice. Most importantly, ROS1 electrovaccination was also found to be effective in slowing the development of autochthonous NSCLC in K-RasG12D mice.
The omentum is the most common site of ovarian cancer metastasis. Immune cell clusters called milky spots are found throughout the omentum. It is however unknown if these immune cells contribute to ovarian cancer metastasis. Here we report that omental macrophages promote the migration and colonization of ovarian cancer cells to the omentum through the secretion of chemokine ligands that interact with chemokine receptor 1 (CCR1). We found that depletion of macrophages reduces ovarian cancer colonization of the omentum. RNA-sequencing of macrophages isolated from mouse omentum and mesenteric adipose tissue revealed a specific enrichment of chemokine ligand CCL6 in omental macrophages. CCL6 and the human homolog CCL23 were both necessary and sufficient to promote ovarian cancer migration by activating ERK1/2 and PI3K pathways. Importantly, inhibition of CCR1 reduced ovarian cancer colonization. These findings demonstrate a critical mechanism of omental macrophage induced colonization by ovarian cancer cells via CCR1 signaling.
While cannabis use among adolescents is frequent in Canada, youth do recognize the potential harms, and increasingly expect knowledgeable health care providers to discuss substance use in everyday practice. This practice point provides sound, evidence-based tools to help health professionals address nonmedical (recreational) cannabis use and its related risks. After highlighting how to make the clinical setting a safe space for youth to talk about psychoactive substances, specific strategies for approaching cannabis use in effective, developmentally appropriate ways are described. Consistent with current literature, screening questionnaires to help structure discussion and identify adolescents who may benefit from more specialized interventions are recommended. Because one in six adolescents who experiments with cannabis goes on to misuse it, appraising their willingness to change risky behaviours is a key aspect of care, along with supportive goal-setting and helping families. Recommended resources for practitioners and parents are included.
Coronavirus disease 2019 infection may be later complicated with pneumothorax after primarily symptoms. We must be aware about pneumothorax, which may be increased in cases of COVID-19.
Proximal para-anastomotic aneurysms, or aneurysmal degeneration of the native aorta above a previous open abdominal aortic repair (Pr-AAAs), are challenging scenarios. The aim of this study was to report the early and mid term outcomes of endovascular repair of Pr-AAAs by fenestrated and branched endovascular aneurysm repair (FB-EVAR). From 2006 to 2017, pre-operative, intra-operative, and post-operative data from patients undergoing FB-EVAR for Pr-AAAs at two European vascular surgery units were prospectively collected and retrospectively analysed. Early results were considered in terms of technical success (target visceral vessel cannulation and stenting, absence of type I - III endoleak, iliac limb occlusion and 24 h mortality); spinal cord ischaemia (SCI) and 30 day and in hospital mortality. Survival, target visceral vessel (TVV) patency, and freedom from re-interventions were also considered at the mid term follow up. Five hundred and forty-four patients underwent FB-EVAR to treat juxta/pararenal or thoraco-abdominal aneurysms. Of these patients, 108 (19.8%) cases were Pr-AAAs (94% male; mean ± standard deviation [SD] age 71 ± 4 years; American Society of Anesthesiologists' grade 3-4 in 74% and 26%, respectively). The previous open aortic repair (OR) was performed 10 ± 2 years before FB-EVAR. It was a tubular aorto-aortic repair in 63 (58.3%) cases, a bifurcated aortobi-iliac repair in 37 (34.2%) cases, and an aortobifemoral bypass repair in eight (7.4%) cases. A previous thoracic endovascular aneurysm repair (TEVAR) had been performed in seven patients (6.5%). The aortic lesion at the time of FB-EVAR was, according to the Crawford classification, a type I - III in 69 (63.9%) or a type IV 39 (36.1%) thoraco-abdominal aneurysm. The mean ± SD aneurysm diameter was 64 ± 6 mm. Overall, 390 TVVs (3.6 ± 1 TVV/case) were revascularised by an endograft with fenestrations (n = 63 [58.3%]), with branches (n = 26 [24.1%]), or with both fenestrations and branches (n = 19 [17.6%]). Tubular, trimodular, or aorto-uni-iliac implants were planned in 68 (63.0%), 38 (35.2%), and two (1.8%) patients, respectively. Proximal TEVAR, carotid-subclavian bypass, and iliac branch devices were planned as adjunctive procedures in 41 (38.0%), five (4.6%), and three (2.8%) cases, respectively. Overall technical success was 93%, with technical failures including five TVV losses (coeliac trunk, n = 1; renal arteries, n = 4) and three deaths within 24 h. Post-operative SCI occurred in seven patients (6.5%), four of which (3.7%) were permanent. SCI was more frequent in category I - III TAAAs (p = .042) and in endografts incorporating both fenestrations and branches (p = .023). Cardiac, pulmonary, and renal complications (reduction in glomerular filtration rate of ≥30% compared with baseline) occurred in 9%, 10%, and 20%, respectively. Bowel ischaemia was seen in three (2.8%) patients. Thirty day mortality was 4% and was associated with pre-operative chronic renal failure (p = .034), post-operative cardiac morbidity (p = .041), and bowel ischaemia (p = .003). Overall in hospital mortality was 5.5% (n = 6). Mean ± SD follow up was 38 ± 18 months. Survival was 82%, 64%, and 54% at one, three, and five years, respectively, and target visceral vessel patency was 93%, 91%, and 91%, respectively. Permanent haemodialysis was needed in four patients (3.7%). There was no late aneurysm related mortality. Survival during follow up was statistically significantly affected by pre-operative chronic renal failure (p = .022), post-operative cardiac morbidity (p = .042), SCI (p = .044), and bowel ischaemia (p = .003). Freedom from re-intervention at one, three, and five years was 89%, 77%, and 74%, respectively. Endovascular treatment of aneurysmal aortic degeneration above a previous open abdominal repair with FB-EVAR is safe and effective. If those promising results are confirmed at later follow up, FB-EVAR should be considered a prominent therapeutic option, especially in high risk patients.
Gulf War Illness (GWI) is a chronic health condition that appeared in Veterans after returning home from the Gulf War. The primary symptoms linked to deployment are posttraumatic stress disorder, mood disorders, GI problems and chronic fatigue. At first glance, these symptoms are difficult to ascribe to a single pathological mechanism. However, it is now clear that each symptom can be linked individually to alterations in the gut microbiome. The primary objective of the present study was to determine if gut microbiome dysbiosis was evident in a mouse model of GWl. Because the majority of Gulf War Veterans are overweight, a second objective was to determine if a high fat diet (HF) would alter GWI outcomes. We found that the taxonomic structure of the gut microbiome was significantly altered in the GWI model and after HF exposure. Their combined effects were significantly different from either treatment alone. Most treatment-induced changes occurred at the level of phylum in Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes. If mice fed HF were returned to a normal diet, the gut microbiome recovered toward normal levels in both controls and GWI agent-treated mice. These results add support to the hypotheses that dysbiosis in the gut microbiome plays a role in GWI and that life-style risk factors such as an unhealthy diet can accentuate the effects of GWI by impacting the gut microbiome. The reversibility of the effect of HF on the gut microbiome suggests new avenues for treating GWI through dietary intervention.
Treatment options for type 2 diabetes have expanded. While metformin remains the first line treatment in most cases, choices for second line treatment now extend beyond sulfonylureas and include the sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors, glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP1) receptor agonists, and dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP4) inhibitors. SGLT2 inhibitors are recommended for people with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, heart failure or kidney disease. Diabetic ketoacidosis is an uncommon but important side effect; its occurrence can be minimised with appropriate patient education and management, especially during perioperative periods and times of illness. GLP1 receptor agonists are recommended for people with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Gastrointestinal side effects are common but are less prominent with the longer acting agents and can be minimised with slow titration of the shorter acting agents. DPP4 inhibitors are generally well tolerated, but alogliptin and saxagliptin should be used with caution in people with risk factors for heart failure. To optimise the management of type 2 diabetes, clinicians need to be aware of the pharmacological characteristics of each class of blood glucose-lowering medications and of the effect on cardiovascular health and renal function, balanced by potential adverse effects. Medications that have cardiovascular or renal benefits should be prescribed for patients with these comorbidities, and this is reflected in recent international guidelines.
Repressor element 1-silencing transcription factor/neuron-restrictive silencer factor (REST/NRSF) is a transcription repressor and its expression is regulated by the Wnt pathway through β-catenin. Metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) signaling plays a key role in controlling neuronal gene expression. Interestingly, REST/NRSF nuclear translocation and signaling, as well as mGluR5 signaling are altered in the presence of mutant huntingtin. It remains unclear whether mGluR5 can modulate Wnt and REST/NRSF signaling under physiological conditions and whether this modulation is altered in Huntington's disease (HD). Using primary corticostriatal neurons derived from wild type mouse embryos, we find that targeting mGluR5 using the agonist, DHPG, or the negative allosteric modulator, CTEP, modulates REST/NRSF expression by regulating the assembly of N-cadherin/ β-catenin complex in a Src kinase-dependent manner. We have validated our in vitro findings in vivo using two HD mouse models. Specifically, we show that pharmacological inhibition of mGluR5 in zQ175 mice and genetic ablation of mGluR5 in BACHD mice corrected the pathological activation of Src and rescued REST/NRSF-dependent signaling. Together, our data provide evidence that mGluR5 regulates REST/NRSF expression via the Wnt pathway and highlight the contribution of impaired REST/ NRSF signaling to HD pathology.
Hexagonal nanocrystalline powders of the non-doped Ca10(PO4)6(OH)2 as well as activated with Ag+ and Eu3+ ions were synthesized by using different wet chemistry methods. Moreover, the obtained hydroxyapatite was loaded with Ag0, as well as nitroimidazole antimicrobials: metronidazole and tinidazole. The structural properties of the products were analyzed by X-ray diffraction (XRD), scanning (SEM) and transmission (TEM) electron microscopy as well as infrared (IR) and Raman spectroscopy. The photoluminescence properties of the Eu3+ and Ag+ co-doped Ca10(PO4)6(OH)2 were characterized via the PL emission, excitation spectra and the luminescence decay curve. The antimicrobial activity of the obtained materials against Prevotella bivia and Parabacteroides distasonis was studied. The cytotoxicity assessment was carried out on the human osteosarcoma cell line (U2OS) as well as human red blood cells (RBC). The choice of the in vitro model was based on the fact that U2OS is a cancer cell line derived from bone tissue which is rich in apatites that play a pivotal role in the extracellular matrix formation. RBCs are the most abundant blood cells and they are used as a cell model in the study of biocompatibility of new prepared biocompounds with potential medical applications. The obtained multifunctional materials do not exhibit the haemolytic activity, therefore, they could be used as a promising antimicrobial agent and for anaerobic bacteria.
As a derivative material of graphene, graphene oxide films hold great promise in thermal management devices. Based on the theory of Fourier formula, we deduce the analytical formula of the thermal conductivity of graphene oxide films. The interlaminar thermal property of graphene oxide films is studied using molecular dynamics simulation. The effect of vacancy defect on the thermal conductance of the interface is considered. The interfacial heat transfer efficiency of graphene oxide films strengthens with the increasing ratio of the vacancy defect. Based on the theoretical model and simulation results, we put forward an optimization model of the graphene oxide film. The optimal structure has the minimum overlap length and the maximum thermal conductivity. An estimated optimal overlap length for the GO (graphene-oxide) films with degree of oxidation 10% and density of vacancy defect 2% is 0.33 μm. Our results can provide effective guidance to the rationally designed defective microstructures on engineering thermal transport processes.
The normal boiling point (NBP) is a fundamental property of liquids and marks the intersection of the Gibbs energies of the liquid and the gas-phase at ambient pressure. This work provides the first comprehensive demonstration of the calculation of boiling points of atomic liquids through first-principles molecular-dynamics simulations. To this end, thermodynamic integration (TDI) and perturbation theory (TPT) are combined with a density-functional theory (DFT) Hamiltonian, which provides absolute Gibbs energies, internal energies, and entropies of atomic liquids with an accuracy of a few meV/atom. Linear extrapolation to the intersection with the Gibbs energy of a non-interacting gas-phase eventually pins-down the NBPs. While these direct results can already be quite accurate, they are susceptible to a systematic over or underbinding of the employed density functional. It is shown how this dependency can be strongly reduced and the robustness of the method increased through a simple linear correction termed λ-scaling. Eventually, by carefully tuning of the technical parameters of the approach, the walltime per element is reduced from weeks to about a day (10-20k core-hours), enabling extensive testing for B, Al, Na, K, Ca, Sr, Ba, Mn, Cu, Xe, and Hg. This comprehensive benchmark demonstrates the excellent performance and robustness of the approach with a mean absolute deviation (MAD) of less than 2% from experimental NBPs and very similar accuracy for liquid entropies (MAD 2.3 J (mol K)-1, 2% relative). In some cases, the uncertainties in the predictions are several times smaller than the variation between literature values, allowing us to clear out long-standing ambiguities in the NBPs of B and Ba.
Herein, a simple all-in-one biosensor based on a DNA three-way junction has been constructed for in situ simultaneous detection of multiple miRNAs by competitive strand displacement. In our design, three oligonucleotides (Y1, Y2 and Y3) of a Y-type scaffold were extended at their 5' ends by introducing three single-stranded recognition sequences with quenchers (BHQ1, BHQ2 and BHQ2), respectively. Subsequently, three reporter sequences labeled with different fluorophores (FAM, Cy3 and Cy5) were bound to the corresponding recognition sequences to form a multicolour DNA biosensor that gives self-quenched fluorescence. The biosensor can effectively enter into exosomes and then hybridize to the complementary miRNA targets to form longer duplexes and release the reporter sequences, thus activating the readable fluorescence signals for the simultaneous detection of multiple miRNAs in exosomes. As a proof of principle, miR-21, miR-27a and miR-375 were chosen as model targets because of their high expressions in breast cancer cells (MCF-7). Fluorescence signals of MCF-7 exosomes after being treated with the biosensor exhibited positive correlations to their concentrations and the limits of detection were determined to be 0.116 μg mL-1, 0.125 μg mL-1 and 0.287 μg mL-1 for exosomes by detecting three exosomal miRNAs (miR-21, miR-27a and miR-375), respectively. In contrast, there were no obvious correlations between fluorescence intensities and control MCF-10A exosome concentrations. Importantly, by testing multiple exosomal miRNAs using the biosensor in clinical serum samples, breast cancer patients can be effectively differentiated from healthy donors. Consequently, the developed biosensor demonstrates high potential as a routine bioassay for the multiplex quantification of exosomal miRNAs in clinical diagnosis.
Ischemic stroke is a serious and life-threatening cerebrovascular thrombotic disease; however, the therapeutic strategy is limited for the complicated mechanism and narrow therapeutic window. Our previous study suggested that Z-Guggulsterone (Z-GS), an active component derived from myrrh, is a good candidate for cerebral injury. The object of this study is to investigate the exact mechanisms of Z-GS in cerebral ischemic stroke. Rats were used to conduct middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) model and were treated with different dosage of Z-GS. Morphological results showed that Z-GS significantly alleviated neurological deficits, infarct volume and histopathological damage in MCAO rats. A total of 8276 differentially expressed genes were identified based on microarray analysis. Oxidation-reduction process and inflammatory response were enriched as the significant gene ontology items. TXNIP and NLRP3 were screened as the potential target genes by Series Test of Cluster (STC) analysis. The results were validated by immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence staining. Besides, Z-GS successfully inhibited oxidative stress and inflammatory response in oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) treated neurons. Knockdown of TXNIP significantly decreased the expression of NLRP3 in OGD-induced neurons. In addition, Z-GS treatment scarcely changed the expressions of NLRP3 in siRNA-TXNIP pretreated cells compared with the siRNA-TXNIP alone treatment group, suggesting that the neuroprotective effect of Z-GS was dependent on TXNIP-NLRP3 axis. Taken together, this study revealed that Z-GS exerted neuroprotective property through alleviated oxidative stress and inflammation via inhibiting the TXNIP/NLRP3 axis. Z-GS could be considered as a promising candidate for the treatment of ischemic stroke.
A force sensor system was developed to give real-time visual feedback on a range of force. In a prospective observational cross-section study, twenty-two anaesthesia nurses applied cricoid pressure at a target range of 30-40 Newtons for 60 seconds in three sequential steps on manikin: Group A (step 1 blinded, no sensor), Group B (step 2 blinded sensor), Group C (step 3 sensor feedback). A weighing scale was placed below the manikin. This procedure was repeated once again at least 1 week apart. The feedback system used 3 different colours to indicate the force range achieved as below target, achieve target, above target. Significantly higher proportion of target cricoid pressure was achieved with the use of sensor feedback in Group C; 85.9% (95%CI: 82.7%-88.7%) compared to when blinded from sensor in Group B; 31.3% (95%CI: 27.4-35.4%). Cricoid force achieved blind (Group B) exceeded force achieved with feedback (Group C) by a mean of 8.0 (95%CI: 5.9-10.2, p<0.0001) and 6.2 (95%CI:4.1-8.3, p< 0.0001) Newtons in round 1 and 2 respectively. Weighing scale read lower than corresponding force sensor by a mean of 8.4 Newtons (95% CI: 7.1-9.7, p<0.0001) in group B and 5.8 Newtons (95% CI: 4.5-7.1, p<0.0001) in Group C. Force sensor visual feedback system enabled application of reproducible target cricoid pressure with less variability and has potential value in clinical use. Using weighing scale to quantify and train cricoid pressure requires a review. Understanding the force applied is the first step to make cricoid pressure a safe procedure.
The COVID-19 pandemic has led to hardship for individuals across the globe, and research to-date has indicated a significant impact of the pandemic on mental health functioning. In order to promote psychological resilience during this time, it is important to understand modifiable targets for clinical intervention. The current study examined demographic characteristics, pandemic-related adversity, and psychological flexibility in relation to general and peritraumatic distress in a sample of United States survey respondents during May of 2020. Participants were recruited from Amazon Mechanical Turk (MTurk), N = 485. Participants completed measures of pandemic-related adversity, psychological flexibility components (openness to experience, behavioral awareness, and valued action), peritraumatic distress, and general distress. Hierarchical regression analyses examined whether demographic characteristics, pandemic-related adversity, and components of psychological flexibility were associated with general and peritraumatic distress. Results indicated that higher pandemic-related adversity, lower openness to experience, and lower behavioral awareness were significantly associated with higher general distress. Greater pandemic-related adversity, lower openness to experience, lower behavioral awareness, and higher valued action were significantly associated with higher peritraumatic distress. Adding the components of psychological flexibility to the model increased the amount of variance accounted for in both measures of distress. The results indicated that psychological flexibility components may be particularly important targets for prevention and intervention efforts in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic. Transdiagnostic interventions, such as Acceptance and Commitment Therapy, that target psychological flexibility may be useful as the impact of the pandemic continues to unfold.
The public perception of the veterinary medicine profession is of increasing concern given the mounting challenges facing the industry, ranging from student debt loads to mental health implications arising from compassion fatigue, euthanasia, and other challenging aspects of the profession. This analysis employs social media listening and analysis to discern top themes arising from social and online media posts referencing veterinarians. Social media sentiment analysis is also employed to aid in quantifying the search results, in terms of whether they are positivity/negativity associated. From September 2017-November 2019, over 1.4 million posts and 1.7 million mentions were analyzed; the top domain in the search results was Twitter (74%). The mean net sentiment associated with the search conducted over the time period studied was 52%. The top terms revealed in the searches conducted revolved mainly around care of or concern for pet animals. The recognition of challenges facing the veterinary medicine profession were notably absent, except for the mention of suicide risks. While undeniably influenced by the search terms selected, which were directed towards client-clinic related verbiage, a relative lack of knowledge regarding veterinarians' roles in human health, food safety/security, and society generally outside of companion animal care was recognized. Future research aimed at determining the value of veterinarians' contributions to society and, in particular, in the scope of One Health, may aid in forming future communication and education campaigns.
Samples of Apis mellifera mellifera venom from different hives in two regions of the Buenos Aires province and its pool were analyzed for their lethal potency, myotoxic, defibrinogenating, hemolytic and inflammatory-edematizing activity and for the histological alterations they produce in the heart, lungs, kidneys, skeletal muscle and liver of mice. In vitro studies focused on the venom's hemolytic activity in different systems and species (horse, man, sheep and rabbit), the cytotoxicity in cellular lines, and on the proteolytic and coagulant activity in plasma and fibrinogen. Hemolytic activity, either observed in vitro or in vivo, showed similar toxicity levels for all samples. Erythrocytes of different species varied in their sensitivity to the venom pool, equines being the most sensitive and sheep the most resistant to direct hemolytic action. Local and systemic myotoxicity was evidenced by either the elevation of serum creatine kinase and/or histopathological lesions, observed in different muscles. All samples caused significant pathological alterations; pulmonary, cardiac, renal and skeletal muscle lesions were substantive and can be related to the pathophysiological mechanisms of envenomation. The venoms from different apiaries and regions of the Buenos Aires province showed very similar toxicological characteristics. These results suggest that severity of envenomation in case of a swarming could therefore be more related to the number of bees than to the differential toxicity of the venom from different regions of the province. This is the first study on the toxicity and toxicological characteristics of Apis mellifera venom in Argentina.
The ROS1 gene is a member of the "sevenless" subfamily of tyrosine-kinase insulin-receptor genes. ROS1-fusion rearrangement causes constitutive downstream signal transduction, with an oncogenic role in non-small-cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC). Fortunately, crizotinib, an ALK1 tyrosine-kinase inhibitor, provides long-term disease control. The objective of this molecular epidemiological study was to estimate the frequency of ROS1 rearrangements and evaluate treatment outcomes with crizotinib therapy. Patients with stage IV NSCLC adenocarcinoma histology were considered for this study. The study was conducted according to the ethical principles stated in the latest version of the Declaration of Helsinki and the applicable guidelines for good clinical practice. Clinical characteristics and treatment details were collected from patients' medical records. A total of 709 stage IV NSCLC adenocarcinoma patients were included in the study. There were 457 (64.46%) men and 252 (35.54%) women, with a median age of 60 years. ROS1-gene rearrangement was positive in 20 (2.82%) cases, 13 using Fluorescent In-Situ Hybridization (FISH), and two and five cases, respectively, using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and next-generation sequencing (NGS), followed by confirmation with FISH. Fourteen of the 20 patients with ROS1-gene rearrangement received crizotinib therapy, with an objective response rate of 64.28%. At a median follow-up of 6 months, the study had not achieved the end points of median progression free survival and overall survival. ROS1-gene rearrangement was present at a relatively higher frequency of 2.8% in north Indian patients with lung adenocarcinoma and was successfully targeted by crizotinib therapy. Although the only US Food and Drug Administration and Conformité Européenne approved method for testing ROS1 rearrangement is NGS, FISH alone or IHC with D4D6 antibody as initial screen with subsequent confirmation of IHC-positive cases by FISH are cost-effective methods in institutions lacking NGS facilities.
The comprehensive recovery of iron and titanium resources from early tailings were systematically attempted from fundamental work to industrial application. Geochemical characterization of the tailings was first conducted, followed by the iron recovery and titanium recovery. Iron recovery was mainly achieved through a series of magnetic separation, and titanium recovery was on the combination of magnetic pre-concentration and flotation separation. Special for titanium recovery, different pretreatment methods including ultrasonic cleaning and attrition-scrubbing were studied to reduce the influence of serious surface pollution of early tailings on ilmenite floatability, and attrition-scrubbing proved to be the best one. Associated mechanisms of flocculants influence on ilmenite floatability and the attrition-scrubbing effects were explored using micro-flotation and XPS tests. After a series of fundamental studies, the industrial production of iron and ilmenite concentrate went into operation and the industrial debugging results were roughly satisfactory. At last, a brief economic analysis was given for the present work.
This first mixed-methods UK trial examined the feasibility and acceptability of a future definitive randomised controlled trial (RCT) to evaluate whether Family Focussed Treatment for Adolescents with Bipolar Disorder (FFT-A) UK version can improve family functioning and well-being as part of the management of Paediatric Bipolar Disorder (PBD). The trial used a randomised, parallel group, non-blinded design where participants received FFT-A UK (16 sessions over 6 months) immediately or after 12 months (delayed arm). Measures of family functioning, well-being and quality of life of the young person and the main carer (most commonly a parent) were completed at baseline, 6 and 12-months in both arms. Primary outcome measures included rates of eligibility, consent and retention along with estimates of variability in the measures and assessment of the intervention delivery. Qualitative interviews allowed assessment of participants' views about FFT-A and the trial processes. Twenty-seven of 36 young persons with PBD and their families consented; of these, 14 families were randomised to the immediate and 13 to the delayed arm. Two families from the immediate arm withdrew consent and discontinued participation. Quantitative measures were completed by 22 families (88%) at 6-months and 21 families (84%) at 12-months. Qualitative interviews were conducted with 30 participants (9 young people, 15 parents and 6 other family members). Nine families attended 3 post-trial focus groups. It was feasible to recruit and retain to this trial. The results highlighted that trial design and measures were acceptable to participants. A benefit in family relationships was reported by participants which they attributed to the intervention in qualitative interviews. Families recommended that future modifications include definitive trial(s) recruiting participants in the age range 15-25 years as it felt this was the age range with maximum need. Trial registration ISRCTN, ISRCTN59769322. Registered 20 January 2014, http://www.isrctn.com/ISRCTN59769322.
Internal hernias are defined by the protrusion of an abdominal organ through a peritoneal or mesenteric aperture. They are responsable for up to 5.8% of all small bowel obstructions (SBOs). Pericecal hernia is a highly unusual variation. We present a case of a 17-year-old Asian male turned to the emergency department due to abrupt abdominal pain and peritonitis. An emergent laparotomy revealed a small bowel herniation through the avascular space of Treves with small bowel necrosis. A pericecal hernia is an extremely unusual clinical entity; however, it should be considered in the differential diagnosis of SBO.
The introduction of non-bridging phosphorothioate (PS) linkages in oligonucleotides has been instrumental for the development of RNA therapeutics and antisense oligonucleotides. This modification offers significantly increased metabolic stability as well as improved pharmacokinetic properties. However, due to the chiral nature of the phosphorothioate, every PS group doubles the amount of possible stereoisomers. Thus PS oligonucleotides are generally obtained as an inseparable mixture of a multitude of diastereoisomeric compounds. Herein, we describe the introduction of non-chiral 3' thiophosphate linkages into antisense oligonucleotides and report their in vitro as well as in vivo activity. The obtained results are carefully investigated for the individual parameters contributing to antisense activity of 3' and 5' thiophosphate modified oligonucleotides (target binding, RNase H recruitment, nuclease stability). We conclude that nuclease stability is the major challenge for this approach. These results highlight the importance of selecting meaningful in vitro experiments particularly when examining hitherto unexplored chemical modifications.
Mitochondria and chloroplasts are important actors in the plant nutritional efficiency. So, it could be expected that a disruption of the coadaptation between nuclear and organellar genomes impact plant response to nutrient stresses. We addressed this issue using two Arabidopsis accessions, namely Ct1 and Jea, and their reciprocal cytolines possessing the nuclear genome from one parent and the organellar genomes of the other one. We measured gene expression, and quantified proteins and metabolites under N starvation and non-limiting conditions. We observed a typical response to N starvation at the phenotype and molecular levels. The phenotypical response to N starvation was similar in the cytolines compared to the parents. However, we observed an effect of the disruption of genomic coadaptation at the molecular levels, distinct from the previously described responses to organellar stresses. Strikingly, genes differentially expressed in cytolines compared to parents were mainly repressed in the cytolines. These genes encoded more mitochondrial and nuclear proteins than randomly expected, while N starvation responsive ones were enriched in genes for chloroplast and nuclear proteins. In cytolines, the non-coadapted cytonuclear genomic combination tends to modulate the response to N starvation observed in the parental lines on various biological processes.
While bariatric surgery has proven to be effective to achieve significant weight loss and short-term improvements in both physical and mental (HRQoL), little is known about the factors associated with long-term decline in mental HRQoL after bariatric surgery. To examine differences in physical and mental HRQoL trajectories in a bariatric patient population 3 years after bariatric surgery and examine associated sociodemographic, weight, and mental health factors. A Canadian academic bariatric care center. A group-based trajectory model was used to examine physical and mental HRQoL trajectories 3 years after bariatric surgery. In a prospective cohort bariatric sample (n = 2270), demographic factors, body mass index, binge eating symptoms, anxiety symptoms (Generalized Anxiety Disorder-7), depressive symptoms (Patient Health Questionnaire-9), and physical and mental HRQoL (Short-form health survey-36 (SF-36)), were measured at baseline, 6 months, 1, 2, and 3 years respectively. The effect of time-varying covariates (body mass index, Patient Health Questionnaire-9, Generalized Anxiety Disorder-7) were investigated to examine effects on physical and mental HRQoL trajectories. Five distinct trajectories described changes in (n = 1939 of 2270) individuals' physical HRQoL outcomes (SF-36-physical health component summary score) and five other trajectories described changes in mental HRQoL (SF-36-mental health component summary score) outcomes from baseline to 3 years postsurgery. The group-based distribution for the 5 physical HRQoL trajectories were as follows: (1) low baseline-stable low (5.8%); (2) low baseline-moderate rise (12%); (3) low baseline-stable high (41.1%); (4) high baseline-stable high (33.2%); and (5) moderate baseline-decline (7.9%). The 5 mental HRQoL trajectories were as follows: (1) low baseline-slow decline (10%); (2) low baseline-stable high (25%); (3) high baseline-unstable rise (12%); (4) high baseline-stable high (48.9%); and (5) high baseline-transient decline (4.1%). Compared with physical HRQoL, mental HRQoL trajectories were not associated with changes in body mass index, yet strongly correlated with changes in binge eating symptoms, Generalized Anxiety Disorder-7, and Patient Health Questionnaire measures at all time points. This study demonstrates distinct patterns in physical and mental HRQoL trajectories after bariatric surgery. The decline in mental HRQoL trajectories was more heterogeneous and associated with several psychosocial predictors that may be useful to guide risk prediction of long-term physical and mental HRQoL outcomes postbariatric surgery.
Changes to bacterial metabolite-elicited signaling, in oncobiosis associated with breast cancer, plays a role in facilitating the progression of the disease. We show that indoxyl-sulfate (IS), a tryptophan metabolite, has cytostatic properties in models of breast cancer. IS supplementation, in concentrations corresponding to the human serum reference range, suppressed tumor infiltration to the surrounding tissues and metastasis formation in a murine model of breast cancer. In cellular models, IS suppressed NRF2 and induced iNOS, leading to induction of oxidative and nitrosative stress, and, consequently, reduction of cell proliferation; enhanced oxidative and nitrosative stress are crucial in the subsequent cytostasis. IS also suppressed epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition vital for suppressing cellular movement and diapedesis. Furthermore, IS rendered cells hypometabolic, leading to a reduction in aldehyde-dehydrogenase positive cells. Pharmacological inhibition of the pregnane-X receptor using CH223191 and the aryl-hydrocarbon receptor using ketoconazole diminished the IS-elicited effects, suggesting that these receptors were the major receptors of IS in these models. Finally, we showed that increased expression of the human enzymes that form IS (Cyp2E1, Sult1A1, and Sult1A2) is associated with better survival in breast cancer, an effect that is lost in triple negative cases. Taken together, IS, similar to indolepropionic acid (another tryptophan metabolite), has cytostatic properties and higher expression of the metabolic machinery responsible for the formation of IS supports survival in breast cancer.
In the EASEL study of patients with type 2 diabetes and high cardiovascular risk, initiation of sodium glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) was associated with lower risk of cardiovascular events and mortality and higher risk of below-knee lower extremity (BKLE) amputation versus non-SGLT2i therapies. This analysis further examined risk of cardiovascular events, cardiovascular and noncardiovascular death and BKLE amputation with the SGLT2i canagliflozin versus non-SGLT2i. New user cohorts were constructed from Department of Defense Military Health System patients initiating canagliflozin or non-SGLT2i (4/1/2013-12/31/2016). Propensity score matching (1:1) controlled for imbalances in baseline covariates. Incidence rates, hazard ratios and 95% confidence intervals for time to first composite outcome of all-cause mortality (ACM) and hospitalization for heart failure (HHF), composite major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) and individual components were evaluated using conditional Cox models. The National Death Index was used to differentiate cardiovascular from noncardiovascular death. The exploratory safety end-point was BKLE amputation. After propensity matching, 15 394 patients with well-balanced baseline covariates were followed for a median of 2.03 years (intent-to-treat). Canagliflozin showed significant benefit for ACM and HHF (P < .0001), MACE (P = .0001), cardiovascular death (P < .0001) and noncardiovascular death (P = .0018). No significant difference in risk of BKLE amputation was observed (P = .20), though few events were observed. Results were generally consistent in on-treatment analyses. In this high cardiovascular risk cohort studied in routine clinical practice, canagliflozin was associated with lower risk of cardiovascular events, cardiovascular death and all-cause mortality with no significant increase in BKLE amputation risk versus non-SGLT2i.
Caffeine occurs naturally in various foods, such as coffee, tea, and cocoa, and it has been used safely as a mild stimulant for a long time. However, excessive caffeine consumption (1~1.5 g/day) can cause caffeine poisoning (caffeinism), which includes symptoms such as anxiety, agitation, insomnia, and gastrointestinal disorders. Recently, there has been increasing interest in the effect of caffeine consumption as a protective factor or risk factor for neurological and psychiatric disorders. Currently, the importance of personalized medicine is being emphasized, and research on sex/gender differences needs to be conducted. Our review focuses on the effect of caffeine consumption on several neurological and psychiatric disorders with respect to sex differences to provide a better understanding of caffeine use as a risk or protective factor for those disorders. The findings may help establish new strategies for developing sex-specific caffeine therapies.
Four new species of the spider genus Novalena Chamberlin Ivie, 1942 are described: N. bola sp. nov., N. mayae sp. nov., N. padillai sp. nov., and N. zootaxa sp. nov. All species were collected in montane forests in Chiapas, Mexico, and three of them occur in sympatry across their distribution range.
Intermittent pneumatic compression of the lower limbs has been shown to have beneficial effects in patients with chronic ulceration. However, the intermittent compression cuff will normally be applied over the wound, which may produce discomfort or interfere with other treatments. Thigh-only approaches to intermittent pneumatic compression could solve this problem. This study aimed to demonstrate if such a system would have positive effects on venous and arterial blood flow distal to the compression site, but proximal to wound sites. The distal venous and arterial effects of a prototype thigh-only 3-chamber sequential intermittent pneumatic compression system were tested in 20 healthy volunteers, and 13 patients with ulcers of various aetiologies using Doppler ultrasound. The system produced hyperaemic responses in the arterial flow of both test groups. The peak venous velocity on deflation of the first and second chambers of the cuff was also greater in the patients with ulceration than in the healthy volunteers (11.6 cm/s vs 8.3 cm/s, P = .1). This work demonstrates that compression of the thigh alone can produce positive haemodynamic effects in the calves of patients with chronic wounds, and that this approach should be investigated as a therapy to improve blood flow to wound sites.
The rational design and facile synthesis of metal organic framework (MOF)-derived carbon materials with high oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity still remains challenging. Herein, we report on a simple yet robust route to dual-shelled Co, N, and S co-doped hollow carbon nanocages (denoted Co-N/S-DSHCN) with outstanding ORR performance. The concurrent compositional and structural engineering of the zeolitic imidazolate framework (ZIF-67), enabled by its coating with trithiocyanuric acid (TCA), yields core-shelled precursor particles which are subsequently carbonized into Co-N/S-DSHCN. Notably, Co-N/S-DSHCN-3.5 outperforms the commercial Pt/C, representing a +25 mV onset potential (Eon) and a +43 mV half-wave potential (E1/2) in 0.1 M KOH and a comparable E1/2 to Pt/C in 0.5 M H2SO4, respectively. Such impressive ORR activities of Co-N/S-DSHCN-3.5 originate from the effective synergy of Co, N, and S co-doping (i.e., a compositional tuning) in conjunction with a unique dual-shelled hollow architecture containing hierarchical porosity (i.e., a structural tailoring).
Over the past decade, the search for dietary factors on which to base cancer prevention guidelines has led to the rapid expansion of the field of dietary patterns and cancer. Multiple systematic reviews and meta-analyses have reported epidemiological associations between specific cancer types and both data-driven dietary patterns determined by empirical analyses and investigator-defined dietary indexes based on a predetermined set of dietary components. New developments, such as the use of metabolomics to identify objective biomarkers of dietary patterns and novel statistical techniques, could provide further insights into the links between diet and cancer risk. Although animal models of dietary patterns are limited, progress in this area could identify the potential mechanisms underlying the disease-specific associations observed in epidemiological studies. In this Review, we summarize the current state of the field, provide a critical appraisal of new developments and identify priority areas for future research. An underlying theme that emerges is that the effectiveness of different dietary pattern recommendations in reducing risk could depend on the type of cancer or on other risk factors such as family history, sex, age and other lifestyle factors or comorbidities as well as on metabolomic signatures or gut microbiota profiles.
We describe the production of single-cycle (sc) and replication-competent recombinant vesicular stomatitis viruses (rcVSVs) displaying heterologous envelope glycoproteins (Envs) on their surface. We prepare scVSVs by transiently expressing HIV-1 Envs or SARS-CoV-2 spike followed by infection of the cells with scVSV particles, which do not carry the vsv-g gene. To prepare rcVSVs, we replace the vsv-g with a specific env-encoding gene, transfect cells with multiple plasmids for production of the genomic RNA and viral proteins, and rescue replication-competent viruses.
Immobilization of the enzyme benefits the catalytic industry a lot. The gram-positive enhancer matrix (GEM) particles could purify and immobilize the recombinant α-amylase in one step without changing the enzymatic character. The enzyme immobilized by GEM particles exhibited good reusability and storage stability. The denaturants dissolved some of the GEM particles and a part of the GEM particles could bear the denaturants. The GEM particles had strong binding ability to the recombination protein with the AcmA tag even when the denaturants existed. The inclusion body was dissolved by urea and then bound by the GEM particles. The GEM particles binding the recombination protein were separated by centrifugation and resuspended in the renaturation solution. GEM particles were recycled by repeating the boiling procedure used in preparing them. The recombination α-amylase without any tag was obtained by digestion and separated via centrifugation. Altogether, our findings suggest that GEM particles have the potential to function as both immobilization and purification materials to bind the soluble recombinant protein with the AcmA tag and the inclusion body dissolved in the denaturants.
Heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen atom play a key role in the normal life cycle of a cell. Pyrazolopyrimidine is a privileged class of nitrogen containing fused heterocyclic compound contributing to a major portion of all lead molecules in medicinal chemistry. The thumbprint of pyrazolopyrimidine as a pharmacophore is always noticeable due to its analogy with the adenine base in DNA. Pyrazolopyrimidines are divided into five types [I, II, III, IV, V] based on the mechanism of action on the specific target conferring a wide scope of research which has accelerated the interest of researchers to investigate its biological profile. In 1956, the anti-cancer activity of pyrazolopyrimidine was evaluated for the first time with appreciable results. Since then, medicinal chemists centered their work on various methods of synthesis and evaluating the biological profile of pyrazolopyrimidine isomers. This report consists of novel methodologies followed to synthesize pyrazolopyrimidine isomers along with a note on their biological significance. To the best of our knowledge, this review article will be first of its kind to encompass different synthetic procedures along with anti-cancer, kinase inhibition, phosphodiesterase inhibition and receptor blocking activity of pyrazolopyrimidine moieties. IC50 values of potent compounds are added wherever necessary to understand the suitability of pyrazolopyrimidine skeletons for a specific biological activity.
Advances in the development of information and communication technologies have facilitated social and sexual interrelationships, thanks to the websites and apps created to this end. However, these resources can also encourage sexual contacts without appropriate preventive measures in relation to HIV and other sexually transmitted infections (STIs). How can users be helped to benefit from the advantages of these apps while keeping in mind those preventive measures? This study aimed to prevent STIs by helping users to remember preventive measures in the risky situations. We have used the design and creation methodology and have developed a software system. This system has two parts: an Android operating system app with emphasis on ubiquitous computing and gamification as well as a server with a webpage. First, a functional test with 5 men who have sex with men (MSM) allowed us to test the app with end users. In addition, a feasibility test with 4 MSM for a month allowed us to try the UBESAFE system with all its functionalities. The main output is a system called UBESAFE that is addressed to MSM. The system has two main parts: (1) an app that sends preventive contextualized messages to users when they use a contact app or when they are near a point where sexual contacts are likely and (2) a server part that was managed by the public health agency of Barcelona (ASPB), which preserves the quality and pertinence of messages and places and offers instant help to users. To increase users' adherence, UBESAFE uses a gamified system to engage users in the creation of preventive messages. Users increased the initial pool of messages by more than 100% (34/30) and created more than 56% (9/16) of places (named hot zones). The system helped MSM who used it to become conscious about HIV and other STIs. The system also helped the ASPB to stay in contact with MSM and to detect behaviors that could benefit from preventive measures. All functions were performed in a nonintrusive manner because users used the app privately. Furthermore, the system has shown how important it is to make users a part of the creation process as well as to develop apps that work by themselves and thus become useful to the users.
Since the introduction of the concept of advance care planning (ACP), many studies have been conducted exploring beneficial effects. These studies show a heterogeneity in clinical endpoints, which reflects diversity of goals connected to ACP. This study aims to get insight in the range of underlying goals that comprise the legitimacy of ACP. Systematic literature search in PubMed, EMBASE, PsychInfo, CINAHL and Cochrane Library. Articles on normative aspects of ACP were included, based on title and abstract. Due to the quantity of inclusions, of which many had similar content, purposive sampling was used to select articles for full text document analysis. Analysis stopped once saturation was reached. In total, 6497 unique articles were found of which 183 were included. Saturation was reached after document analysis of 55 articles (30%); this yielded 141 codes concerning goals of ACP and also 70 codes about objections against ACP, which shed light on the underlying goals of ACP as well. We identified five underlying goals: respecting individual patient autonomy, improving quality of care, strengthening relationships, preparing for end-of-life, reducing overtreatment. Five distinctive underlying goals of ACP were identified, each with corresponding objections that need to be considered. Specifying underlying goals of ACP may direct the debate on definitions, methods and preferred outcomes of ACP. This study was funded by the Netherlands Organisation for Health Research and Development, grant 839120002.
The kinetic isotope effect (KIE) is arguably the most established experimental observable reflecting nuclear quantum effects in enzymatic reactions. The role of nuclear quantum effects in enzymes is rather intriguing and has long been a source of profound investigations. Herein, we present a computational study of monoamine oxidase A (MAO A) enzyme and its substrate phenylethylamine, focusing on the impact of nuclear quantum effects on the reaction free energy barrier. Two distinct schemes of quantization of nuclear motion were used, one being the established Quantum Classical Path (QCP) approach, and the other our own code for quantum treatment along the selected nuclear coordinate (hydrogen transfer coordinate) which reasonably mimics the reaction coordinate. In excellent agreement with the experimental value of 8.5 ± 0.3, H/D KIE was computed to 8.66, corresponding to the D-H barrier difference of 1.28 kcal mol-1. The magnitude of KIE implies that nuclear quantum effects probably have only a minor role in the reaction, which is in accordance with the features of potentials computed along the reaction coordinate and with the pertinent energy levels and wavefunctions. The computed H/D KIE for the same reaction in aqueous solution and in the gas phase was fairly similar to the one in the enzyme, suggesting that the role of tunneling in the catalytic function of MAO A is insignificant. The agreement between the computed and observed KIE supported by analysis of nuclear quantum effects implicitly validates the assumed hydride transfer reaction mechanism.
Cassava plays a key role in the food production and economies of several countries worldwide. Due to its starch content, alcoholic fermentation is a promising transformation process for adding value to cassava. However, most of the existing cassava beverages are from traditional origin, with the yields and quality often poorly known or controlled due to the use of artisanal production processes. This work aims at the application of easily implementable biotechnological tools for the production of cassava spirits, in order to add value to this raw material. Cassava flour was liquefied and saccharified using enzymatic cocktails, generating a fermentable broth with ~184 g L-1 of fermentable sugars. This was then fermented into an alcoholic product with ~10% ethanol by volume and distilled for spirit production. Cassava spirits with 40% ethanol by volume, with or without application of oak wood, were produced. For further valorization, volatile fractions of cassava spirits were characterized by gas chromatography-flame ionization detection (GC-FID) and GC-MS. These showed a predominance of yeast fermentation metabolites, complemented by wood extractives where oak chips were applied. Both produced spirits showed desirable sensory traits, receiving good acceptance by experienced tasters, demonstrating the feasibility of the proposed process to add value to cassava surplus.
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) is the most common rheumatic disease in children and uveitis is its most important extra-articular manifestation. Evidence-based recommendations are available only to a limited extent and therefore JIA associated uveitis management is mostly based on physicians experience. Consequently, treatment practices differ widely, both nationally and internationally. Therefore, an effort to optimize and publish recommendations for the care of children and young adults with rheumatic diseases was launched in 2012 as part of the international project SHARE (Single Hub and Access Point for Pediatric Rheumatology in Europe) to facilitate clinical practice for paediatricians and (paediatric) rheumatologists. The aim of this work was to translate published international SHARE recommendations for the diagnosis and treatment of JIA associated uveitis and to adapt them for use in the Czech and Slovak Republics. International recommendations were developed according to the standard methodology of the European League against Rheumatism (EULAR) by a group of nine experienced paediatric rheumatologists and three experts in ophthalmology. It was based on a systematic literature review and evaluated in the form of an online survey and subsequently discussed using a nominal group technique. Recommendations were accepted if &gt; 80% agreement was reached (including all three ophthalmologists). A total of 22 SHARE recommendations were accepted: 3 on diagnosis, 5 on disease activity assessment, 12 on treatment and 2 on future recommendations. Translation of the original text was updated and modified with data specific to the czech and slovak health care systems and supplemented with a proposal for a protocol of ophthalmological dispensarization of paediatric JIA patients and a treatment algorithm for JIA associated uveitis. Conclusion: The aim of the SHARE initiative is to improve and standardize care for paediatric patients with rheumatic diseases across Europe. Therefore, recommendations for the diagnosis and treatment of JIA-associated uveitis have been formulated based on the evidence and agreement of leading European experts in this field.
The primary purpose of the present study was to assess whether use of proposed containment sheet (so called "a frugal innovation") minimizes the aerosol and splatter dispersion during total knee arthroplasty (TKA). A total of 32 patients with knee osteoarthritis who were scheduled to undergo primary and unilateral TKA reported during the COVID-19 pandemic were enrolled into this prospective single-institution cohort study. Demographic and epidemiological data, travel and contact history were collected. Eligible cohort was randomly assigned to a study (TKA using containment sheet) group and a control group (TKA without containment sheet). Radiological and functional outcomes before operation and at the final follow-up were assessed using Western Ontario and Mc-master Universities Osteoarthritis Index score (WOMAC) and the visual analog scale (VAS). The primary outcome was the postoperative effectiveness of containment sheet and face shield, defined as the numbers of countable macroscopic aerosols and/or splatters to naked eyes. The level of significance was set at p < 0.05 levels. Present cohort was comprised of 14 men (43.75%) and 18 women (56.25%) with an average age of 65.45 ± 4.07 years (range, 62-75 years). There were no statistically significant differences with regard to baseline parameters and perioperative demographics. Functional outcomes for knee function at the last follow-up showed significant improvement in both the groups (p < 0.05). Face shield showed significant number of aerosols/splatters in control group. Highest number/concentration of aerosols/splatters was contained within the sheet. The proposed containment sheet can minimize the dispersion of aerosols and splatters generated during TKA and provide a safe healthcare environment in a cost-effective manner.
In 2016, Médecins Sans Frontières established the first general population Hepatitis C virus (HCV) screening and treatment site in Cambodia, offering free direct-acting antiviral (DAA) treatment. This study analysed the cost-effectiveness of this intervention. Costs, quality adjusted life years (QALYs) and cost-effectiveness of the intervention were projected with a Markov model over a lifetime horizon, discounted at 3%/year. Patient-level resource-use and outcome data, treatment costs, costs of HCV-related healthcare and EQ-5D-5L health states were collected from an observational cohort study evaluating the effectiveness of DAA treatment under full and simplified models of care compared to no treatment; other model parameters were derived from literature. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (cost/QALY gained) were compared to an opportunity cost-based willingness-to-pay threshold for Cambodia ($248/QALY). The total cost of testing and treatment per patient for the full model of care was $925(IQR $668-1631), reducing to $376(IQR $344-422) for the simplified model of care. EQ-5D-5L values varied by fibrosis stage: decompensated cirrhosis had the lowest value, values increased during and following treatment. The simplified model of care was cost saving compared to no treatment, while the full model of care, although cost-effective compared to no treatment ($187/QALY), cost an additional $14 485/QALY compared to the simplified model, above the willingness-to-pay threshold for Cambodia. This result is robust to variation in parameters. The simplified model of care was cost saving compared to no treatment, emphasizing the importance of simplifying pathways of care for improving access to HCV treatment in low-resource settings.
